The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dressed Game and Poultry à la Mode, by 
Harriet A. de Salis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Dressed Game and Poultry à la Mode

Author: Harriet A. de Salis

Release Date: April 14, 2010 [EBook #31982]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY À LA MODE ***




Produced by Joseph R. Hauser and The Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)





                   DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY




  +----------------------------------------------------------+
  | WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS.                                  |
  |                                                          |
  |                                                          |
  | SAVOURIES À LA MODE. Eighth Edition. Fcp.                |
  | 8vo. 1_s._                                               |
  |                                                          |
  | ENTRÉES À LA MODE.  Fourth Edition. Fcp.                 |
  | 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                                         |
  |                                                          |
  | SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH À LA MODE.                        |
  | Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                    |
  |                                                          |
  | SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES À LA MODE.                      |
  | Fcp. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                                    |
  |                                                          |
  | OYSTERS À LA MODE; or, the Oyster and over               |
  | One Hundred Ways of Cooking it; to which are added a few |
  | Recipes for Cooking all kinds of Shelled Fish. Second    |
  | Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                           |
  |                                                          |
  | DRESSED VEGETABLES À LA MODE. Fcp.                       |
  | 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                                         |
  |                                                          |
  | DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY À LA MODE.                      |
  | Fcp. 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._                                    |
  |                                                          |
  |                                                          |
  | London: LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO                            |
  +----------------------------------------------------------+




                    DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY


                          _À LA MODE_


                               BY

                          MRS DE SALIS




     AUTHORESS OF 'SAVOURIES À LA MODE' 'ENTRÉES À LA MODE'
     'SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH À LA MODE' 'OYSTERS À LA MODE'
         'SWEETS À LA MODE' AND 'VEGETABLES À LA MODE'


                  'One loves the pheasant wing
                   And one the leg'
                                              POPE




                             LONDON
                    LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.
              AND NEW YORK: 15 EAST 16^{th} STREET
                              1888
                     _All rights reserved_




                           PRINTED BY
            SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE
                             LONDON





PREFACE.


At this the sporting season of the year, I venture to offer to the
public another of my little series in the form of Dressed Game and
Poultry. No doubt many of the recipes are well known, but it has been my
aim to collect from _all_ the culinary preserves such recipes that from
personal experience I know to be good. All the known and unknown tomes
on the gourmet's art have been consulted, and I have to thank the
authors for this assistance to my work, as well as those _cordons bleus_
from whom I have practically learnt some few of them.

I shall be very pleased to correspond with any of my readers who may
wish to discourse on matters relative to the dinner table and its
adjuncts, floral decorations among the number.

                                              H. A. DE SALIS.

HAMPTON LEA, SUTTON,
SURREY, 1888.




DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY

À LA MODE.


Blackbird Pie.

Stuff the birds with the crumb of a French roll soaked in a little milk,
which put in a stewpan with 1-1/2 ounces of butter, a chopped shalot,
some parsley, pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolks of two
small eggs. Stir over the fire till it becomes a thick paste, and fill
the insides of the birds with it. Line the bottom of the pie-dish with
fried collops of rump steak, and place the birds on them neatly. Add
four hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and pour gravy all over, cover with puff
paste, and bake for one hour and a quarter.


Blanquette of Chicken.

Cut the meat from a cold boiled fowl, in small pieces. Stew down the
bones in one pint of water, a bouquet garni, add a little salt and white
pepper to taste. Then strain the stock, add to it three or four peeled
mushrooms finely minced, and let them cook in this sauce; when done put
in the pieces of fowl to warm through, thicken with the yolks of two
eggs. Add lemon juice and serve hot.


Blanquette of Chicken aux Concombres.

Boil a chicken and cut it into neat joints. Cut a cucumber in pieces and
fry in butter, put them in a little stock, which reduce; have reduced
half a pint of velouté sauce with a few trimmings of cucumber in it.
Pour this through a tammy over the fowls, set it on the fire, and as
soon as it bubbles add a liaison of three yolks of eggs, work in a
little butter and lemon juice, drain the pieces of cucumber in a cloth,
throw them in, and serve them in an open vol au vent, garnished with
flowers of puff paste.


Capilotade of Fowl or Turkey.

Take the remains of a cold fowl or turkey, and cut it into neat joints.
Chop up three or four mushrooms, some parsley, a shalot, and a piece of
butter the size of a walnut, and let all fry together for a short time;
then moisten with a little good-flavoured stock, and thicken with flour.
Add salt to taste, let the sauce boil well, put in the pieces of bird
for a few minutes; take them out, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce
over, and serve.


Chicken à la Bonne Femme.

Cut up a chicken into joints, warm up three onions and three turnips in
butter; when brown add the pieces of fowl. Season with salt and pepper,
sauté over the fire for ten minutes. Then stir in two tablespoonfuls of
flour, and five minutes after add a tumblerful of stock, a wineglass of
white wine, a bouquet of mixed herbs, and half a pound of peeled
tomatoes, with all the pips carefully removed. Cook over a slow fire for
twenty-five minutes, add about half a pound of mushrooms peeled and cut
up to the size of a shilling, leave it on the fire for ten minutes; take
out the bouquet of herbs, season with an ounce of finely-chopped
parsley, dish up the pieces of chicken in a pyramid, and pour the sauce
and vegetables over.


Braised Drumsticks of Chicken.

Braise the drumsticks, and arrange them uprightly in tent fashion, and
all around and between the drumsticks should be finely chopped salad.
Alternate slices of tongue and ham should be placed at the edge of the
salad, and the border of the dish ornamented with thin rounds of
beetroot.


Chickens Chiringrate.

Cut off the feet of a chicken, break the breastbone flat, but be careful
not to break the skin. Flour it and fry it in butter, drain all the fat
out of the pan, but leave the chicken in. Make a farce from half a pound
of fillet of beef, half a pound of veal, ten ounces of cooked ham, a
shalot, a bouquet garni, and a piece of carrot, pepper, and salt; cook
in stock, and then pass it through a sieve, and lay this farce over the
chicken. After stewing the chicken for a quarter of an hour, make a rich
gravy from the stock, and add a few mushrooms and two spoonfuls of port
wine; boil all up well, and pour over and around the chicken.


Chicken à la Continental.

Beat up two eggs with butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; then cut up
the fowls, dip them in the egg paste, and roll them in crumbs and fried
parsley. Fry in clarified dripping, and pour over the dish any white or
green vegetable ragoût, made hot; grate Parmesan over all.


Chicken à la Davenport.

Stuff a fowl with a forcemeat made of the hearts and livers, an anchovy,
the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one onion, a little spice, and a little
shred veal-kidney fat. Sew up the neck and vent, brown the fowl in the
oven, then stew it in stock till tender. Serve with white mushroom
sauce.


Chicken à l'Italienne.

Pass a knife under the skin of the back, and cut out the backbone
without injuring the skin or breaking off the rump, draw out the
breastbone and break the merrythought; flatten the fowl and put two
skewers through it. Put it into a marinade of oil, sliced onion,
eschalot, parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf, spice, pepper, and salt, in
which let them soak a few hours. Broil them before the fire; when done,
dish the fowls, garnish them with hot pickle, serve them with a brown
Italian sauce over, with a few onions in it.


Chicken à la Matador.

Cut a chicken into fillets and neat joints. Mince finely a Spanish onion
and stew it with two ounces of butter, a few drops of lemon, pepper, and
salt; when it has been stewed for half an hour, pass it through a tammy,
and mix in with it a good tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Mask the chicken
with this, and warm up the chicken in the bain-marie.


Fillets of Chicken à la Cardinal.

Cook some fillets of chicken in butter, and when done place them in a
circle round an entrée dish, with a mushroom between each fillet. Fill
the centre with Allemagne sauce, to which has been added some lobster
and crayfish butter to make it red. Garnish with crayfish tails if
handy.


Fried Chicken à la Orly.

Cut up a chicken into joints. Season with salt, pepper, parsley, a
bayleaf, and lemon juice, sprinkle with flour and fry in butter; dip
some sliced onions into flour and fry. When done, dish up the chicken in
a pyramid, garnish with the fried onions and cover with tomato sauce.


Fried Chicken à la Suisse.

Roast a chicken and cut it into fillets and neat joints. Sprinkle some
finely minced herbs, mignonette pepper, and salt over them. Let them
remain for an hour, then dip them in frying batter and fry. Serve with
fried parsley and tomato purée.


Fricassee of Chicken.

American Recipe.

Clean, wash, and cut up the fowls. Lay them in salt and water for half
an hour. Put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them and
half a pound of salt pork cut into thin strips. Cover closely and let
them heat very slowly. Then stew for over an hour, if the fowls _are
tender_; if not they may take from three to four hours. They must be
cooked _very slowly_. When tender, add a chopped onion, a shalot,
parsley, and pepper. Cover closely again, and when it has heated to
boiling, stir in a teacupful of milk, to which have been added two
beaten eggs and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Boil up and add an ounce of
butter. Arrange the chickens neatly in an entrée dish, pour the gravy
over and serve.


Fritôt of Chicken aux Tomates.

Take the remains of a boiled fowl and cut into pieces the size of a
small cutlet. Shake a little flour over them and put them aside. Prepare
a batter made of half a pound of Vienna flour, the yolk of one egg, half
a gill of salad oil, and a gill of light coloured ale. Mix all these
together lightly till it will mask the tip of your finger, add half a
pint of purée of tomato, and mix well together. Dip the chicken cutlets
into this batter, masking them well, and then put them in good lard and
fry, and place them on a wire sieve as they are cooked, keeping them
near the fire to keep them hot and crisp. Dish piled in a pyramid with
tomatoes whole and tomato sauce round.


Chicken Nouilles au Parmesan.

Take a large fowl, and when trussed put a lump of butter inside it, and
cover the breast with fat bacon. Put it into a stewpan with an onion, a
carrot, a piece of celery; cover with water and boil slowly for fifty
minutes. Garnish the dish on which it is served with a pint of Nouilles
boiled in a stewpan of boiling water for twenty minutes, drained, and
then put into another saucepan with two ounces of butter. Sprinkle in
two ounces of Parmesan cheese and warm up for five minutes, then garnish
the fowl with them, and pour over it a pint of rich Béchamel sauce, in
which two ounces of Parmesan cheese has been mixed. The Nouilles are
made by mixing half a pound of butter with three eggs till it becomes a
thick smooth paste, roll it out very thin, cut it into strips an inch
wide, and place four or five of these on the top of each other, shred
them in thin slices like Julienne vegetables, and drain them.


Chicken Pudding à la Reine.

Take the meat from a cold fowl and pound it in a mortar, after removing
the skin and sinews. Boil in light stock a couple of good tablespoonfuls
of rice. When it is done and has soaked up the rice, add the pounded
chicken to it, with a gill of cream, pepper, and salt. If not moist
enough, add a little more cream. Butter a plain mould, fill it with the
rice and chicken, tie a pudding cloth closely over, and put the mould
into a stewpan of hot water to boil for an hour. The water should only
reach about three-quarters up the mould. When done, turn it out and
serve a good white mushroom sauce round it.


Chicken and Rice.

Pollo con Arroz (Spanish Recipe).

Cut a fowl into joints, wipe quite dry, and trim neatly. Put a wineglass
of the best olive oil in a stewpan, let it get hot. Put in the chicken,
stir and turn the joints and sprinkle with salt. When the chicken is a
golden brown add some chopped onions, one or two red chillies, and fry
all together. Meanwhile have ready four tomatoes cut in quarters, and
two teacupfuls of rice well washed. Mix these with the chicken and pour
in a very small quantity of broth and stew till the rice is cooked and
the broth dried up. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley and serve in a
deep dish without a cover, as the steam must not be kept in.


Chicken in Savoury Jelly.

Take a large chicken and roast it. Boil a calf's foot to a strong jelly,
take out the foot and skim off the fat; beat up the whites of two eggs
and mix them with a quarter of a pint of white wine vinegar, the juice
of one lemon, a little salt, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a
claret-glassful of sherry. Put these to the jelly, and when it has
boiled five or six minutes strain it through a jelly bag till clear.
Then put a little into an oblong baking tin (big enough for a
half-quartern loaf), and when it is nearly set put in the chicken with
its breast downwards; the chicken having been masked all over with white
sauce, in which aspic has been well mixed, and ornamented with a device
of truffles cut in stars and kite shapes. When the chicken is in, fill
up the mould gradually with the remainder of the jelly. Let it stand for
some hours, or place it on ice before turning it out.


Chicken with Spinach.

Poach nicely in the gravy five or six eggs. Dress them on flattened
balls of spinach round the dish and serve the fowl in the centre,
rubbing down the liver to thicken the gravy and liquor in which the fowl
has been stewed, which pour over it for sauce, skimming it well.
Mushrooms, oysters, and forcemeat balls should be put into the sauce.


Chicken Stewed Whole.

Fill the inside of a chicken with large oysters and mushrooms and fasten
a tape round to keep them in. Put it in a tin pan with a cover, and put
this into a large boiling pot with boiling water, which must not quite
reach up to the top of the pan the chicken is in. Keep it boiling till
the chicken is done, which would be in about an hour's time after it
begins to simmer. Remove the scum occasionally, and replenish with water
as it boils away; take all the gravy from it and put it into a small
saucepan, keeping the chicken warm. Thicken the gravy with butter,
flour, and add two tablespoonfuls of chopped oysters, the yolks of two
eggs boiled hard and minced fine, some seasoning, and a gill of cream.
Boil five minutes and dish the fowls.


Côtelettes à l'Ecarlate.

Make a stiff forcemeat from the breast of a fowl or pheasant, or the two
breasts of partridge or grouse. Cut some slices of tongue into cutlet
shapes. Take some more tongue, pound and pass it through a sieve and mix
it with the forcemeat. Season with a little cayenne and mushroom
flavour. Butter and fill up some cutlet moulds with the forcemeat, and
steam them in the oven. Then turn out the cutlets and place them on a
baking sheet. Glaze them and replace them in the oven for a few seconds.
Dish up alternately a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of forcemeat; sauce
the whole with chaud-froid sauce, and garnish with chopped aspic and
very small red tomatoes.


Forced Capon.

Cut the skin of a capon down the breast, carefully slip the knife down
so as to take out all the meat, and mix it with a pound of beef suet cut
small. Beat this together in a marble mortar, and take a pint of large
oysters cut small, two anchovies, a shalot, a bouquet garni, a little
mignonette pepper, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all these well
together, and lay it on the bones; then draw the skin over it, and sew
up. Put the capon into a cloth, and boil it an hour and a quarter. Stew
a dozen oysters in good gravy thickened with a piece of butter rolled in
flour; take the capon out of the cloth, lay it in its dish, and pour the
sauce over it.


Capon à la Nanterre.

Make a stuffing with the liver of the capon, a dozen roasted chestnuts,
a piece of butter, parsley, green onions, very little garlic, two yolks
of eggs, salt and pepper. Stuff the capon, and then roast it, covering
it with buttered paper. When it is cooked, brush it over with the yolk
of an egg diluted in a little lukewarm batter; sprinkle breadcrumbs over
all, and let it brown, and serve with a sharp sauce.


Braised Ducks à la St. Michel.

Rub some flour and oil over a couple of ducks, and brown them in the
oven for a short time. Mix together a cup of Chablis wine and a cup of
broth, season with pepper and salt; braise the ducks till they are
tender. Chop some mushrooms, chives, and parsley; mix these in the broth
in which the ducks were braised. Put the ducks to keep warm before the
fire whilst the sauce 'reduces.' Dredge in a very little flour, and send
up the ducks with the sauce round them.


Duck à la Mode.

Divide two ducks into quarters, and put them in a stewpan, and sprinkle
over them flour, pepper, and salt. Put into the stewpan several pieces
of butter, and fry the ducks till a nice brown colour. Remove the frying
fat, and pour in half a pint of gravy and half a pint of port wine,
sprinkle in more flour, add a bouquet garni, three minced shalots, an
anchovy, and a dust of cayenne. Let them stew for twenty minutes, then
place them on a dish, remove the herbs, clear off the fat, and serve
with the sauce over them.


Braised Duck à la Nivernaise.

Line a braisingpan with slices of bacon, add the duck, cover it with
bacon, and season with a bouquet of parsley, carrots, thyme, and bay
leaves; moisten with stock and the same quantity of claret; fix the lid
very tightly on the pan, and simmer over a slow fire, with hot coals on
the lid of the stewpan. Cut up some turnips into balls, cook them in
butter till brown, drain and simmer in brown thickening, moistened with
a little stock. When the duck is cooked, dish up, and garnish with the
turnips.


Devilled Duck or Teal.

Indian Recipe.

Take a pound of onions, a piece of green ginger, and six chillies.
Reduce them to a pulp, then add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, pepper,
salt, cayenne, and chutney, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup, and half a
bottle of claret. Cut up the duck or teal, and put it into the sauce,
and let it simmer for a long time--the duck having been previously
roasted.


Duck à la Provence.

Rub the duck over with lemon-juice, fry it in butter for a few minutes;
sprinkle it with flour; then add sufficient stock to cover it, one
tablespoonful of ketchup, one carrot; cut up two onions, two cloves, a
bouquet garni, pepper, and salt. Let this stew for an hour; then take
out the duck, strain the gravy, and remove all fat, and add plenty of
mushrooms. Put in some stoned and scalded olives, which boil up for ten
minutes and dish up with the duck. The olives should have been soaked
three hours previously.


Duck.

Canard à Purée Perto.

Take a pint of freshly shelled peas, boil them in a little thin stock,
and rub them through a sieve; stew a duck in stock with a little salt, a
dozen peppercorns, half a clove of garlic, six small onions, a bayleaf,
and bouquet garni. When done, pass the same through a sieve, and add to
it the purée of peas; reduce the whole to the consistency of thick
cream. Serve the duck with the purée over it.


Salmi of Duck.

Take the giblets of a duck and the flesh off the carcase, and the bones,
and stew them in equal quantities of claret and stock, salt, pepper, and
three shalots. Reduce and simmer till it is thick, then pass through a
sieve, and take it off the fire before it boils. Cut up the duck into
neat pieces and lay it in the stewpan with the gravy. Squeeze juice of
strained orange over it, and serve en pyramide.


Stewed Duck and Turnips.

Brown the duck in a stewpan with some butter, peel and cut some young
turnips into equal sizes, and brown in the same butter; stir in a little
powdered sugar, reduce some stock to a thin brown sauce, season with
salt, pepper, a bouquet of parsley, chives, half a head of garlic, and a
bayleaf. Stew the duck in this sauce, and when half cooked add the
turnips, turn the duck from time to time, being careful not to break the
turnips, cook slowly, and skim off all grease and serve.


Roast Goose Stuffed with Chestnuts.

Prepare a goose and stuff it with a mixture of minced bacon, the liver,
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and chestnuts, which have been previously
cooked and peeled. Baste the goose well whilst roasting. When cooked,
serve with its own gravy, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and the juice
of a lemon.


Goose à la Royale.

Having boned the goose, stuff it with the following forcemeat:--Twelve
sage leaves, two onions, and two apples, all shred very fine. Mix with
four ounces grated bread, four ounces of beef suet, two glasses of port
wine, a grate of nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste, the grated peel of a
lemon, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; sew up the goose and fry in
butter till a light brown, and put it into two quarts of good stock and
let it stew for two hours, and till the liquor is nearly consumed; then
take up the goose, strain the liquor and take off the fat, add a
spoonful of lemon pickle, the same of browning and port wine, a
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a little cayenne and salt, boil it up
and pour over the goose.


Game and Macaroni.

Put some ounces of macaroni into boiling stock, then add any game cut
into small joints three parts cooked. Add some lean raw ham, chopped
mushrooms, pepper, and salt.


Game Pie.

Take ten ounces of veal and the same of veal fat, and chop it very fine,
season with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Arrange this as a lining round a
china raised pie mould. Fill in with fillets of grouse, pheasant,
partridge, and hare, strips of tongue, ham, hard-boiled yolks of eggs,
button mushrooms, pistachio nuts, truffles, and pâté de foie gras; cover
in with more of the mince, then put a paste on the top for cooking it
in. Bake from two and a half to three hours. Remove the paste and fill
the mould up with clarified meat jelly, partly cold; let this set.
Ornament the top with chopped aspic and alternate slices of lemon and
cucumber round. Croûtons of red and yellow aspic should be arranged at
the base of the mould.


Game Rissoles au Poulet à la Carême.

Roll out very thin three-quarters of a pound of Brioche paste. Place
upon it, two inches from the edge, minced fowl or game, prepared as for
croquets, and rolled up between two teaspoons in balls the size of a
nutmeg. Place these an inch from each other; egg the paste all round and
fold the edge of it over the balls of mince. Press it firmly down, and
with a paste stamp two inches wide cut the rissoles, keeping the mince
balls exactly in the centre of each. Lay them on a hot tin that the
paste may rise and fry them in lard not too hot, turning them with a
skewer. They will become quite round. When of a good golden colour drain
them and serve directly, and dish up in a pyramid.


Salad of Game à la Francatelli.

Boil eight eggs hard; shell them, and cut a thin slice off the bottom of
each, cut each into four lengthwise. Make a very thin flat border of
butter about one inch from the edge of the dish the salad is to be
served on, fix the pieces of egg upright close to each other, the yolk
outside, or alternately the white and yolk, lay in the centre a layer of
fresh salad, and, having cut a freshly roasted young grouse into eight
or ten pieces, prepare a sauce as follows: Put a spoonful of eschalots
finely chopped in a basin, one ditto of castor sugar, the yolk of one
egg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, and a
little salt. Mix in by degrees four spoonfuls of oil and two of white
vinegar. When well mixed put it on ice, and when ready to serve up whip
a gill of cream, which lightly mix with it. Then lay the inferior parts
of the grouse on the salad, sauce over so as to cover each piece, then
lay over the salad and the remainder of the grouse, sauce over, and
serve. The eggs can be ornamented with a little dot of radish or
beetroot on the point. Anchovy and gherkin, cut into small diamonds, may
be placed between.


Grouse in Aspic.

Roast a brace of grouse, and skin them, and mask them with brown sauce
in which aspic has been mixed. Cut some pistachio kernels into pretty
shapes and ornament the birds. Take a large square tin mould (a baking
tin will do), pour in a layer of pale aspic, and when it is all but cold
place the grouse on it breast downward, one turned one way and one the
other, then gradually fill it up with the aspic, and put on ice. Turn
out and decorate the base with chopped aspic, truffles, parsley, and
tomatoes.


Croustades of Grouse à la Diable.

Cut some fillets of grouse into cutlet shapes, also some slices of fried
bread; sprinkle the latter with grated Parmesan cheese. Put the fillets
of grouse on the cheesed bread. Mask them with a purée of tomatoes and a
tiny dust of cayenne, then add a little more grated Parmesan, a little
parsley, some breadcrumbs, and little pieces of butter. Salamander over
and serve hot.


Grouse à l'Ecossaise.

Take a brace of grouse; put three ounces of good dripping or butter
inside each, but not in the crop. Put them down to roast, and baste till
cooked. Have a slice of toast in the pan under them just before they are
cooked. Parboil the liver, pound with butter, salt, and cayenne, and
spread it on the toast.


Grouse à la Financière.

Take a brace of grouse; boil the livers for a few minutes, and pound
them in a mortar with three ounces of butter, a little salt, pepper, a
grate of nutmeg, one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, and three or four
mushrooms. Stuff the grouse with this, truss and roast them, and baste
plentifully. Take some sauce espagnole, add a few mushrooms and a dust
of cayenne. Let all boil up together and serve with the grouse.


Friantine of Grouse.

Cut with two cutters, one larger than the other, twelve thin flat pieces
of pastry, put on the centre of the largest a tablespoonful of quenelle
meat and spread it out; in the centre of this put a tablespoonful of the
breast of a grouse, cut up with two ounces of lean ham. Mix well and put
it into a stewpan with three-quarters of a pint of white cream sauce.
Warm up and let it get cold. Cover this with the smaller sized pieces of
pastry, having wetted the inside of each with yolk of egg to make them
adhere to the lowest pastry, press down tightly with the smallest
cutters, and cut the bottom pastry to the size of the smaller cutter.
Egg and breadcrumb. Arrange them in a frying basket and fry in boiling
lard a nice brown. Serve garnished with fried parsley.


Grouse Kromesquis.

Take the remains of cold grouse and mince it very fine. Mix with it a
couple of tablespoonfuls of grated ham or tongue. Divide into small
sausage shapes, dip each in batter, fry a pale golden colour and serve
very hot, garnished with crisped parsley.


Grouse Marinaded.

German Recipe.

Hang the birds as long as possible, then pluck and draw them and wipe
their insides with a soft cloth. Mince an onion; take about a dozen
peppercorns, twenty juniper berries, three bayleaves, and put these into
a gill of vinegar. Let the grouse soak in this for three days, turning
them two or three times daily, and pouring the marinade over them. Stuff
the birds with turkey forcemeat and lard the breasts. Place them in
front of a clear fire, baste constantly, and serve with slices of lemon
round the dish.


Grouse au Naturel.

Grouse should be wiped inside, but never washed. Have a brisk fire, and
when the bird is trussed, place it before a brisk fire, and before it is
taken down the breast should be basted with a little butter, and frothed
and browned before it is sent up. A good sized grouse requires nearly
three-quarters of an hour to cook it. Serve fried breadcrumbs and bread
sauce with grouse.


Grouse Pie.

Take two or three grouse, cut off the wings and legs, and tuck the
drumsticks in through a slit in the thigh; singe the birds; split them
in halves; season them with pepper and salt. Place some pieces of very
tender beefsteak at the bottom of a pie dish, add chopped mushrooms,
parsley, shalot, and two teaspoonfuls of chutnee sauce, and sprinkle
over the steak. Place the halves of the grouse neatly on the top; add a
little more seasoning; moisten with sufficient gravy made from the
necks, legs, and wings. Cover with puff paste, and bake for about an
hour and a half.


Pressed Grouse.

Boil a brace of grouse till very tender; season, and then take away all
the meat and pull it out very fine, removing all skin. Add to the liquor
in which they were boiled a tablespoonful of gelatine for each three
pounds of grouse, and keep stirring it in the boiling liquor till it is
quite dissolved; place the grouse in a deep tin basin, and pour the
liquor over it whilst hot; stir it well, so that the meat may become
thoroughly saturated with the liquor, then turn a plate over it, put on
a heavy weight, let it get cold, and turn out. It may be made ornamental
by boiling eggs hard, halving them, and putting the flat side on the
basin or mould in which the grouse has to be pressed.


Grouse Salad.

Cut up a brace of cold grouse, and let them marinade in two
tablespoonfuls of salad oil and the juice of a lemon, with a little salt
and pepper, and let them remain in this for three hours. Pound the yolk
of a hard-boiled egg very smooth, and mix it well with the yolk of a raw
egg, a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a dust of cayenne, and half
a teaspoonful of finely-chopped onion, pouring in gradually drop by drop
some fine salad oil; stir constantly, and, as it thickens, add a little
tarragon vinegar, then add more oil and vinegar till there is enough
sauce. Put some shred lettuce on a dish, place some marinaded grouse on
it, pour the dressing over, and garnish with fillets of anchovies,
slices of hard-boiled eggs, and sprigs of chervil. Chop up some savoury
jelly, and place round it like a wreath.


Scallops of Grouse à la Financière.

Take a brace of grouse, remove the skin, take off all the flesh, and
scrape the flesh into very fine shreds. Chop up all the bones and necks,
and put them into a saucepan with an onion, five sprigs of thyme, three
of parsley, and a small carrot; cover with water, and let it boil slowly
for three hours, skimming when it boils. Make a mixture of about half a
pint of stock and two ounces of butter, and let boil. When the stock
boils take 3-1/4 ounces of fine Vienna flour, and stir it well over the
fire for about three minutes; then add the yolks of three eggs, stirring
over the fire again. Take it then from the saucepan, and place it on a
plate to get cool; then pound the shredded grouse till quite fine, using
a gill of cream; now pass it through a fine sieve. Take a plain round
mould, holding a pint and a half, butter it, and ornament with truffles
cut in devices. Cut up three or four mushrooms, and mix in with the
grouse panada, and fill the mould. Place buttered paper over it, and let
it steam for half an hour; then turn out and let it get cold, and when
cold cut it into a number of scallops of the same size. Egg and
breadcrumb them, dip them in clarified butter, and fry a pale gold
colour, and serve on a border of mashed potatoes. Make a sauce as
follows:--Boil one glass of Marsala in half a pint of brown sauce for
five minutes; place in the centre of them some mushrooms, truffles, and
cockscombs, and pour sauce over these, but do not put the sauce over the
scallops.


Grouse Soufflé.

Take the breasts of two grouse already cooked, pound them in a mortar
with two ounces of fresh butter and a very small piece of onion. Pass
them through a sieve, add four eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth,
season with a little salt and dust of cayenne. Place it in a soufflé
dish, and bake it in a quick oven.


Timbale of Grouse à la Vitellius.

Simmer a slice of tongue in a stewpan till nearly cooked. Cut it up into
fine dice, and put it back into the saucepan with four truffles, four
tomatoes, and an ounce of butter; add a little cornflour to thicken it.
Moisten with half a pint of stock and a gill of claret. Reduce this,
skim off all the fat; then add some finely-minced grouse, a sprig of
parsley, and six anchovies which have been soaked in milk. Warm these
over a slow fire, but do not let them boil; when done, pour into a fancy
mould lined with light puff paste. Bake, turn out, and serve very hot,
garnished with crisped parsley.


To Cook Hare.

The great object in cooking a hare is to keep it as moist as possible,
and therefore the hare must not be put too close to the fire in the
first stage of roasting. Prepare a stuffing of quarter of a pound of
beef suet, chopped finely, two ounces of uncooked ham, a teaspoonful of
chopped parsley, and two teaspoonfuls of dried mixed savoury herbs; add
to this a quarter of the rind of a lemon, chopped very fine, a dust of
cayenne pepper, salt, five ounces of breadcrumbs, and two whole eggs.
Pound this in the mortar. The liver may be minced and pounded in with
these ingredients if fresh. Place the stuffing in the hare, and place at
a distance from the fire; have plenty of dripping melted in the dripping
pan, and basting should go on and be continued from the very first. Then
as the hare is getting on, baste with good milk, and then baste well
with butter; put the hare near the fire so as to froth the butter, and
at the same time dredge the hare with some flour, so as to get a good
brown colour, and serve good rich gravy _round_ it with half a glass of
port wine in a tureen, and currant jelly should be handed with it.


Hare Cutlets à la Chef.

Take a freshly-killed hare, save the blood, paunch and skin it. Roast
it, then cut off the fillets and cut them aslant and flatten them. Put
the bones of the hare into a saucepan with two onions sliced, one
good-sized carrot, a tiny piece of garlic, two cloves, and a bouquet
garni, and one bayleaf. Moisten with a glass of white wine, and let all
this steep and stew for an hour; then pass through a sieve, add a
quarter of a boiled Spanish onion, and thicken with the blood of the
hare. Make some hare stuffing, and moisten with some of the sauce, and
make it into cutlets. To form cutlets similar to the fillet cutlets,
place them in a frying-pan, and let them poach in water. Place the hare
fillets and the stuffing cutlets in the pan and fry to a good colour in
clarified butter. Put a small piece of the small bones of the hare in
every cutlet and dish them in a crown. Fill the centre with a mixture of
small onions, mushrooms, and small pieces of bacon, cut into dice which
have been stewed in some of the sauce. Hand red currant jelly with this
dish.


Hare en Daube.

French Recipe.

The hare must not be too high; cut it into pieces as for jugged hare.
Rub into a stewpan a bit of bacon cut into squares; put the hare into
it, together with thyme, bayleaf, spices, salt, pepper, and as much
garlic as will go on the point of a knife. Add a little bacon rind
blanched and cut into the shape of lozenges. When the whole has a
uniform colour, moisten with a good glass of white wine, put on a close
lid, and stew for four hours upon hot cinders. When ready to be served,
pour away the lard, the spice, and the fat, and add a little essence of
ham, and send to table hot.


Hare Derrynane Fashion.

Take three or four eggs, a pint of new milk, a couple of handfuls of
flour, three yolks. Make them into a batter, and when the hare is
roasting baste it well, repeating the operation till the batter thickens
and forms a coating all over the hare. This should be allowed to brown
but not to burn.


Filet de Lièvre à la Muette.

Cut a hare into fillets and stew them with a mince of chickens' livers,
truffles, shalots in a rich brown gravy with a tumblerful of champagne
in it.


Gâteaux de Lièvre.

Mince the best parts of a hare with a little mutton suet. Season the
mince highly with herbs and good stock. Pound it in a mortar with some
red currant jelly and make up into small cakes with raw eggs. Flour and
fry them and dish them in a pyramid.


Hare à la Matanzas.

Paunch, skin, and clean a hare marinaded in vinegar for a couple of days
with four onions sliced, three shalots, a couple of sprigs of parsley,
pepper and salt. After two days take the hare out and drain it. Farce it
with a stuffing made of the flesh of a chicken, three whole eggs, the
liver, and a slice of bacon, all finely chopped, mixed and seasoned with
pepper, salt, and a bouquet garni. Now put the hare in a stewpan with
slices of bacon all over it, some sliced carrots, two onions stuck with
cloves, and half a pint of consommé. Put some live coals on the lid of
the saucepan and let it cook for three hours.


Hare à la Mode.

Skin the hare and cut it up in into joints and lard with fine fillets of
bacon; place in an earthenware pot, with some slices of salt pork,
chopped bacon, salt, mixed spice, a piece of butter, and half a pint of
port wine; lay two or three sheets of buttered paper over it; fix on the
lid tightly and simmer over a slow fire. When nearly done, stir in the
blood, boil up and serve.


Jugged Hare.

Have a wide-mouthed stone jar, and put into it some good brown gravy
free from fat. Next cut up the hare into neat joints; fry these joints
in a little butter to brown them a little. Have the jar made hot by
placing it in the oven, and have a cloth ready to tie over its mouth.
Put the joints already browned into the jar, and let it stand for
fifteen minutes on the dresser. After this has stood some time untie the
jar and add the gravy, with a dust of cinnamon, six cloves, two
bayleaves, and the juice of half a lemon. The gravy should have onion
made in it, and should be thickened with a little arrowroot. A
wineglassful of port should be added, and a good spoonful of red currant
jelly should be dissolved in it. Next place the jar up to its neck in a
large saucepan of boiling water, only taking care the jar is well tied
down. Let it remain in the boiling water from an hour to an hour and a
half. Stuffing balls, made with the same as the stuffing for roast hare,
rolled into small balls the size of marbles and thrown into boiling fat,
should be served with it.


To Roast Landrail.

This bird should be trussed like a snipe, and roasted quickly at a brisk
but not a fierce fire for about fifteen or sixteen minutes. It should be
dished on fried breadcrumbs, and gravy served in a tureen.


Croustade of Larks.

Bone two dozen larks, season, and put into each a piece of pâté de foie
gras (truffled). Roll the larks up into a ball, put them in a pudding
basin, season them with salt and pepper, and pour three ounces of
clarified butter over them, and bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an
hour. Dish them in a fried bread croustade, made by cutting the crust
from a stale loaf about eight inches long, which must be scooped out in
the centre and fried in hot lard or butter till it is a good brown.
Drain it, and then place it in the centre of a dish, sticking it there
with a little white of egg. Put it into the oven to get hot; then put
the larks into it, and let it get cold. Garnish with truffles and aspic
jelly.


Larks à la Macédoine.

Take a dozen larks, fill them with forcemeat made of livers, a little
veal and fat bacon, a dessertspoonful of sweet herbs; pepper and salt to
taste, and pound all well together in a mortar, and then stuff the birds
with it. Lay the larks into a deep dish, pour over them a pint of good
gravy, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Have a
pyramid of mashed potatoes ready, and arrange the larks round it, and
garnish with a macédoine of mixed vegetables.


Lark Pie.

Pluck, singe, and flatten the backs of two dozen larks, pound the trail
and livers in a mortar with scraped bacon and a little thyme, stuff the
larks with this, and wrap each in a slice of fat bacon. Line a plain
mould with paste, fill it with the larks, sprinkle them with salt and
pepper, spread butter all over them, and add two small bayleaves; cover
with paste, and bake for two hours and a quarter. Can be eaten hot or
cold. It must be turned out of the mould.


Salmi of Larks à la Macédoine, cold.

Take a dozen larks, bone and stuff them with pâté de foie gras, and make
them as nearly as possible of the same size and shape. Make half a pint
of brown sauce, adding a glass of sherry, a little mushroom ketchup, and
an ounce of glaze; boil together, and reduce one half, adding a couple
of spoonfuls of tomato juice; pass through a sieve, and, when nearly
cold, add a gill of melted aspic. Mask the larks, and place them in a
sauté pan, and cook them; take them out and remove neatly any surplus
sauce, and dish them in the entrée dish in a circle. Take the contents
of a tin of macédoine of vegetables boiled tender in a quart of water,
add a dust of salt, a saltspoonful of sugar, and a piece of butter the
size of a walnut; strain off, and, when cold, toss them in two
tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly. This macédoine should be piled up
high and served in the centre. Garnish with chopped aspic round the
larks, and sippets of aspic beyond this.


Lark Puffs.

Make some puff paste, and take half a dozen larks, and brown them in a
stewpan with a little butter; then take them out and drain them, and put
into the body of each bird a small lump of fresh butter, a little piece
of truffle, pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of thick cream. Truss
each lark, and wrap it in a slice of fat bacon; cover it with puff
paste rolled out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and shape it
neatly; put the puffs in a buttered tin, and bake in a brisk oven for
ten minutes.


Leveret à la Minute.

Skin, draw, and cut a leveret into joints; toss in a saucepan with
butter, salt, pepper, and a bouquet garni. When nearly cooked, add some
chopped mushrooms, eschalots, parsley, a tablespoonful of flour, a gill
of stock, and a gill of claret; as soon as it boils, pour into a dish
and serve.


Leveret à la Noël.

Take a leveret, cut off the fillets and toss them in the oven in a
sauté-pan in butter; when cold, slice these fillets in shreds as for
Julienne vegetables. Shred likewise some truffles, mushrooms, and
tongue, and bind these together with two tablespoonfuls of good stock,
in which a glass of port has been put, two cloves, the peel of a Seville
orange, and a few mushrooms; thicken with butter and flour and tammy.
Make some game forcemeat with the legs, and with it line some little
moulds; fill up the empty space with the shredded game and vegetables
and then cover with a layer of forcemeat. Poach these moulds in a deep
sauté-pan, and when done dish them up round a ragoût composed of
truffles, mushrooms, quenelles, and cockscombs. Sauce the entrée with
gravy made from the bones and thickened. This entrée may be served cold,
when it should be mixed with aspic, and garnished with it also.


Salmi of Moor Fowl or Wild Duck.

Carve the birds very neatly, and strip every particle of skin and fat
from the legs, wings, and breasts, braise the bodies well and put them
with the skin and other trimmings into a very clean stewpan. Add two or
three sliced shalots, a bayleaf, a small blade of mace and a few
peppercorns, then pour in a pint of good veal gravy, and boil briskly
till reduced nearly half, strain the gravy, pressing the bones well,
skim off the fat, add a dust of cayenne and squeeze in a few drops of
lemon; heat the game very gradually in it, but it must not be allowed to
boil. Place sippets of fried bread round the dish, arrange the birds in
a pyramid, give the same a boil and pour over. A couple of wineglasses
of port or claret should be mixed with the gravy.


Ortolans in Cases.

Bone as many ortolans as are required, have ready about three rashers of
bacon chopped fine, which must be put into a sauté-pan with two shalots,
one bayleaf, a bouquet garni, half a teaspoonful of black pepper and
salt to taste. These must be fried till coloured; then add half a pound
of calf's liver, cut small, and fried till brown; next place them in a
mortar and pound them well, add the yolks of three hard boiled eggs and
some truffle cuttings, pound again, and pass through a sieve; stuff the
ortolans with this forcemeat, roll them up, and place them in a
well-oiled paper case, and then bake in a quick oven. Pour over each
case before serving a gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the
birds, half a pint of rich gravy and a glass of claret, which should be
reduced one half: send to table as hot as possible.


Ortolans à la Périgourdine.

Cover the ortolans with slices of bacon, and cook them in a bain-marie
moistened with stock and lemon juice. Take as many truffles as there are
ortolans, scoop out the centres and boil them in champagne (Saumur will
do). When done, pour a little purée of game into each truffle, add the
ortolans, warm for a few seconds in the oven, and serve.


Ortolans aux Truffes.

Take as many even large-sized truffles as ortolans; make a large round
hole in the middle of each truffle, and put in it a little chicken
forcemeat. Cut off the heads, necks, and feet of the birds, season with
salt and pepper, and lay each bird on its back in one of the truffles.
Arrange them in a stewpan, lay thin slices of bacon over them, pour over
them some good stock, into which a gill of Madeira has been poured, and
then simmer them very gently for twenty-five minutes. Dish the ortolans
on toast, and strain the gravy over them.


Partridges à la Barbarie.

Truss the birds, and stuff them with chopped truffles and rasped bacon,
seasoned with salt and pepper and a tiny dust of cayenne. Cut small
pieces of truffles in the shape of nails; make holes with a penknife in
the breasts of the birds; widen the holes with a skewer, and fill them
with the truffles; let this decoration be very regular. Put them into a
stewpan with slices of bacon round them, and good gravy poured in enough
to cover the birds. When they have been stewed for twenty minutes glaze
them; dish them up with a Financière sauce (see 'Entrées à la Mode').


Partridge Blancmanger aux Truffes.

Boil a brace of partridges and let them get cold. Melt about a pint of
aspic jelly and take a plain round quart mould and pour about a gill of
aspic jelly into it to mask it by turning the mould round and round in
the hands till the inside has been entirely covered by the jelly, pour
away any that does not adhere, and place the mould on ice at once. Cut a
few large truffles in slices and ornament the bottom of the mould with a
star, pour on about two tablespoonfuls of a little cold liquid aspic.
Put into a stewpan a pint of aspic and whisk it till it becomes white as
cream, then mask the mould with this; pour in enough to half fill it,
then turn it round and round, covering all the inside of the mould,
pouring out any superfluity. Skin the partridges and cut off all the
meat and chop it up: then pound it with a gill of cream in the mortar,
and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Place this in a large stewpan,
add half a pint of cream, and mix it with the partridge meat. Collect
the aspic jelly, melt it, and whip it up and add it to the partridge;
then fill the mould with this and pour in a little liquid aspic; place
on ice. To serve this, dip it into warm water the same as a mould of
jelly, turn it out, and garnish with aspic croûtons alternately with
very small tomatoes; around the top arrange a wreath of chervil.


Partridges à la Béarnaise.

Wipe the inside of the partridges with a damp cloth. Cut off the heads,
and truss the legs like boiled fowls. Put them into a stewpan with two
tablespoonfuls of oil and a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and shake
them over a clear fire till slightly browned all over. Then pour over
them two tablespoonfuls of strong stock, one glassful of sherry, and two
tablespoonfuls of preserved tomatoes, with a little salt and plenty of
pepper. Simmer all gently together until the partridges are done enough,
and serve very hot. The sauce should be highly seasoned.


Blanquette of Partridge aux Champignons.

Raise the flesh of a cold partridge, take off the skin; cut the flesh
into scallops; put some velouté sauce in a stewpan with half a basket of
mushrooms skinned and sliced. Reduce the sauce till very thick, adding
enough cream to make it white. Throw it over the partridge scallops, to
which add a few mushrooms.


Broiled Partridges.

Take off the heads and prepare them as if for the spit. Break down the
breast bone and split them entirely up the back and lay them flat. Shred
an eschalot as fine as possible and mix it with breadcrumbs. Dip the
partridges in clarified butter and cover inside and outside with the
crumbs. Broil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently for a
quarter of an hour, and serve them up with mushroom sauce.


Chartreuse of Partridges.

Boil some carrots and turnips separately, and cut them into pieces two
inches long and three quarters of an inch in diameter. Braise a couple
of small summer cabbages, drain well, and stir over the fire till quite
dry; then roll them on a cloth and cut them into pieces about two inches
long and an inch thick. Roast a brace of partridges, and cut them into
neat joints. Butter a plain entrée mould, line it at the bottom and the
sides with buttered paper to form a sort of wall, then fill it up with
cabbage and the pieces of partridge in alternate layers. Steam the
chartreuse to make it hot, turn it out of the mould upon an entrée dish,
and garnish with turnips, carrots, and French beans. Send good brown
sauce to table with it.


Partridges aux Choux.

Truss a brace of partridges for boiling, and mince about half a pound of
fat bacon or pork, and put it into a saucepan on the fire; when it is
boiling, immerse the birds quickly, and sauté them till nicely coloured.
Have ready a small savoy, which has been well washed and drained, chop
it up and place it in the saucepan with the partridges, a bouquet garni,
two pork sausages, pepper and salt to taste; add about half a pint of
stock, and let all simmer together for two and a half hours. When ready
to serve, remove the bouquet garni, and serve the chopped cabbage round
the birds, and the sausages split and divided into four pieces each.


Cold Glazed Fillets of Partridge.

Roast a brace of partridges, fillet them, pound the meat from the
carcases in a mortar with truffles and mushrooms; simmer the bones in
some vin de Grave, with truffle trimmings, shalots, and a bayleaf, which
reduce on the fire to about three-quarters the quantity; squeeze through
a cloth, add two tablespoonfuls of clear stock to it, and stir half of
it into the pounded meat; mix it thoroughly, and stir it until it boils;
pass it through a tammy, and leave to get cold. Arrange the fillets,
with a tomato cut the same shape between each one, in a circle round an
entrée dish; fill the centre with the purée, cover the whole with the
remainder of the sauce, and garnish with croûtons of aspic jelly.


Partridges à la Cussy.

Remove all the bones from the birds except the thigh bones and legs,
stuff them with a forcemeat composed of chopped sweetbread, mushrooms,
truffles, and cockscombs which have been boiled; sew up the birds to
their original shape, hold them over hot coals till the breasts are
quite firm, and cover them with buttered paper. Line a stewpan with a
slice of ham, two or three onions, carrots, a bouquet garni, a little
scraped bacon, the partridge bones which have been pounded, salt, and
pepper; moisten with stock. As soon as the vegetables get soft, add the
partridges, and simmer over a slow fire. When done, dish up the birds,
pass the sauce through a tammy, skim off the fat, reduce, and add a few
truffles or slices of mushrooms, and pour over the partridges.


Partridges with Mushrooms.

Take a brace of birds, and prepare about half a pound of button
mushrooms, and place them in a stewpan with an ounce and a half of
melted butter; add a slight sprinkling of salt and cayenne, and let them
simmer for about nine minutes, then turn out all into a plate, and when
quite cold put it into the bodies of the partridges; sew and truss them
securely and roast them in the usual way, and serve either mushroom
sauce round them, or they can be served up with their own gravy only,
and bread sauce handed.


Partridge Pie.

Cut the breasts and legs off two or three birds, sprinkle them with
pepper and salt, and cook them in the oven smothered in butter, and
covered with a buttered paper. Pound the carcases, and make them into
good gravy, but do not thicken it.

Take the livers of the birds with an equal quantity of calf's liver,
mince both, and toss them in butter over the fire for a minute or two;
then pound them in a mortar with an equal quantity of bacon, two shalots
parboiled, with pepper, salt, powdered spice, and sweet herbs to taste.
When well pounded, pass it through a sieve; put a layer of forcemeat
into a pie-dish, arrange the pieces of partridge on it, filling up the
interstices with the forcemeat; then pour in as much gravy as is
required, put on the paste cover, and bake for an hour. When done, a
little more boiling hot gravy may be introduced through the hole in the
centre of the crust. A little melted aspic jelly may be added to the
gravy.


Partridge Pudding.

Take a brace of well-kept partridges, cut them into neat joints and skin
them; line a quart pudding basin with suet crust, place a thinnish slice
of rump steak at the bottom of the dish cut into pieces, put in the
pieces of partridge, season with pepper and salt, and pour in about a
pint of good dark stock well clarified from fat, then put on the cover
and boil in the usual way.


Partridges à la Reine.

Truss a brace of partridges for boiling, fill them with good game
forcemeat, with two or three truffles cut up in small pieces, and tie
thin slices of fat bacon over them. Slice a small carrot into a stewpan
with an onion, four or five sticks of celery, two or three sprigs of
parsley, and an ounce of fresh butter. Place the partridges on these,
breasts uppermost, pour over them half a pint of good stock, cover with
a round of buttered paper, and simmer as gently as possible till the
partridges are done enough. Strain the stock, free it carefully from
grease, thicken it with a little flour and as much browning as is
necessary; flavour with a little cayenne, half a dozen drops of essence
of anchovy, and a tablespoonful of sherry. Stir this sauce over a gentle
fire till it is on the point of boiling, then pour it over the
partridges already dished up on toast, and serve instantly.


Salmi of Partridge à la Chasseur.

Take a couple of cold roast partridges--they should be rather
under-cooked--cut into neat joints, removing all skin and sinew, and lay
the pieces in a stewpan with four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, six
tablespoonfuls of claret, the strained juice of a lemon, salt, pepper,
and cayenne to taste.

Simmer gently for a few minutes till the salmi is hot throughout, then
serve directly. Garnish with fried sippets.


Scalloped Partridges.

Take the fillets of a brace of partridges, sauté them in butter till
firm, drain them, and put in some good game stock and two tablespoonfuls
of Allemagne sauce; when boiling put in the scalloped partridges, with
two or three peeled mushrooms, a small piece of butter, and the juice of
half a lemon. Dish up the scallops in a circle, and fill the same in the
centre.


Partridges à la Sierra Morena.

Take a brace of partridges properly trussed; cut into dice one inch
thick a little less than half a pound of bacon, and put them in the
stewpan; cut two large onions in quarters, take six whole black peppers,
a little salt, one bayleaf, half a gill of vinegar, one gill of port
wine, one gill of water, one tablespoonful of salad oil, and put all
these ingredients into the stewpan; put on the lid, and cover the
stewpan with half a sheet of brown kitchen paper; put the stewpan on a
slow fire to stew for two hours; then take out the partridges and dish
them and put round some of the quarters of onions which have been
stewed. Pass the gravy through a sieve and send to table.


Partridge Soufflé.

Roast a partridge, chop and pound the flesh in a mortar with a few
spoonfuls of Béchamel sauce and a small piece of butter. Season well;
mix with this four eggs, and strain the whole through a sieve into a
basin. Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly, and mix lightly with the
purée. Put all into the soufflé dish, and let it bake in the oven for
twenty minutes. Cover the top with a piece of paper to prevent its
burning.


Partridge Soufflé.

Another way.

Skin a brace of cold roast partridges, cut off all the meat, and pound
it in a mortar with the birds' livers; warm up in a saucepan with a
little reduced stock, and pass through a tammy. Break up the bones and
put them into a saucepan with a good brown sauce and stock, and reduce
till nearly a glaze; add the partridge purée and half an ounce of
butter, two yolks of eggs, and the two whites whipped, which must be
stirred in gradually; pour into a soufflé dish, and bake as soon as the
soufflé has risen sufficiently. Serve it _at once_.


Perdreaux en Surprise.

Take two roasted partridges, cut out the whole of the breasts in a
square piece, so as to make a square aperture, clean away all the
spongy substance from the interior, and make a _salpicon_ to be put
inside the birds as follows:--Cut into very small dice the flesh taken
out of the birds, also some truffles and pepper and salt. Put these into
a little velouté sauce, and with this stuff the birds. Dip them into
eggs and breadcrumbs put some bits of butter all over, and fry them of a
nice colour. Dish up and serve with Espagnole sauce.


Stewed Partridges.

Lard a brace of partridges, and place them in a stewpan with onions,
carrots, rashers of bacon, a bouquet garni, and equal quantities of
stock and light claret, and simmer over a slow fire, skimming
constantly. When done, dish up the partridges, reduce the sauce, and
pass through a sieve and pour over the birds.


Partridge à la Toussenel.

Take a brace of partridges, stuff them with the livers of the birds
minced up together with butter and some truffles which have been cooked
in champagne; wrap each bird up in a figleaf or vineleaf, and over these
place a sheet of buttered paper. Then put the birds on the spit, and
roast till about three-fourths cooked; then take off the spit, and under
the four members of each bird spread a mixture of breadcrumb worked into
a farce with pepper, butter, parsley, shalot, and grated nutmeg. Replace
the birds on the spit, and let them finish roasting, basting them
continually alternately with broth and champagne. These drippings, to
which the grated peel of one lemon and the juice of a Seville orange are
added, form the sauce to be served with it.


Partridge Tartlets.

Bouchées de Perdreaux.

Take the breasts of two cooked partridges, about six ounces, and cut
into very small pieces. Mince two ounces of lean ham, one truffle, and
six mushrooms; stir this mixture into a gill of white sauce. Butter nine
small moulds, line them neatly with this mixture, smooth well over with
a hot wet knife, fill in with minced partridge, coat them neatly over
the top with the quenelle meat, steam them for twenty minutes; dish on a
circle of mashed potato, pour good white sauce over and round them, and
serve French beans or tomatoes in the centre.


Partridge à la Vénitienne.

Put a brace of partridges into a stewpan with butter, two glasses of
Chablis, and two glasses of stock, add a bouquet garni, very little
garlic, two cloves, salt and pepper; let them simmer gently. Take them
off when done, pass the gravy through a sieve, add a little butter and
flour to thicken it, a small piece of glaze, a little cayenne and salt.
Pour the sauce over the partridges, and cover over all with two
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; put a few breadcrumbs and pieces of
clarified butter on this, and set the whole on a baking sheet in the
oven. Brown the birds well, and serve with sauce espagnole or sauce
piquante.


Pintail.

This bird should be roasted at a clear quick fire, well floured when
first laid down, turned briskly, and basted with butter _constantly_. It
takes about twenty-five minutes to roast, and then it should be laid
down before the fire for two or three more, when it will yield a very
rich gravy. Score the breast, and sprinkle a little cayenne on it, and
send cut lemon up to table to hand with it.


Boiled Pheasant.

Cover with buttered paper and simmer as gently as possible till it is
done enough. Pour either celery, horseradish, oyster, or soubise sauce
over it, and serve more in a tureen.


Boudins of Pheasant à la Richelieu.

Take a cold pheasant and pick the meat from it; remove the skin and
sinews, and pound the flesh in a mortar to a smooth paste. Mix its
weight with the same quantity of pounded potatoes or panada and six
ounces of fresh butter. Mix these thoroughly, pound them together, and
season highly with salt and cayenne, and a trifle of mace. Bind together
with the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, two tablespoonfuls of white
sauce, and last of all two tablespoonfuls of boiled onions chopped
small. Spread this mixture out on a dish, and make it up into small
cutlets about three inches long, two inches wide, and a quarter of an
inch thick. Drop these carefully into very hot water, and poach them
gently for a few minutes. The water must not boil. Take them up, drain,
and let them get cold; then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in hot
butter a nice pale colour. Make a gravy by peeling and frying four
onions in butter till lightly browned, dredge an ounce of flour over
them, and pour upon them half a pint of stock, a glassful of claret, the
bones of the pheasant, and pepper and salt. Simmer over fire for twenty
minutes, strain through sieve, and it is ready for use. Serve the
boudins in a circle with the gravy round.


Pheasant à la Bonne Femme.

Put a well-hung pheasant in a buttered stewpan with three ounces of good
beef dripping and six ounces of ham cut into dice. Let the pheasant fry
over fire till it is nicely and lightly browned, then add a
tablespoonful of chutnee and three large Spanish onions cut in rings;
cover the saucepan, and let it simmer till all are cooked. Take up the
bird and put it on a dish, beat the onions over the fire for ten
minutes, season with pepper and salt, and serve round the pheasant.


Pheasant à la Brillat-Savarin.

Hang a pheasant till tender, pluck, draw, and lard it carefully. Bone
and draw two woodcocks, keep the trail separate, throw away the
gizzards, chop up the meat with beef marrow which has been cooked by
steam, scraped bacon, pepper, salt, mixed herbs and truffles; fill the
pheasant with this stuffing, which fix in with a piece of bread the
shape of a cork and tie it round with fine thread. Lay a thick slice of
bread two inches broader than the pheasant in the dripping pan; pound
the tail of the woodcock in a mortar with truffles, add anchovy, a
little scraped bacon, and a lump of fresh butter; spread a thick layer
on the bread, roast the pheasant over it so as to catch all the dripping
and dish up on it.


Crème of Pheasants à la Moderne.

Take two pheasants, remove the skin from the breast, and cut from each
the two large fillets and the two under ones; remove every particle of
the white flesh that did not come away with the fillets, leaving the
legs and pinions on the carcases.

Spread each fillet on a board and with a knife scrape the flesh from the
skin of the fillet. When the flesh is removed from the four large
fillets and from the four smaller ones, and little remnants gathered
from the carcases, place them in a mortar and pour in a gill of cream
and pound well for a few minutes, then rub through clean wire sieve,
place it back in the mortar and keep adding, a gill at a time, more
cream until one pint of cream is used up; now take two plain cylinder
moulds, well buttered and ornamented according to fancy with truffles
(or small dariole moulds may be used), fill carefully and place a piece
of buttered paper on the top of the mould or moulds, and place them in a
stewpan with about a pint of boiling water and let them simmer very
gently for twenty minutes and turn out. Make a sauce to serve with this
dish of the carcases, &c., mixed with rich Béchamel sauce, and when
dished there should be a garnish of peas, mushrooms, or shred truffles.


Pheasant Cutlets.

Take a well-hung young pheasant, cut it when prepared into neat joints.
Take out the bones carefully and shape the joints into cutlets; flatten
these with the cutlet-bat, season rather highly and cover them thickly
with egg and finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put the bones and trimmings into
a saucepan with a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a handful of parsley, a
bouquet garni, a bayleaf, pepper, salt, and as much water as will cover
them. Let them stew slowly till the flavour of the herbs is drawn out,
then thicken gravy and strain. Fry the cutlets in hot fat till a bright
brown. Serve on a hot dish in a circle with one of the small bones stuck
into each cutlet; pour the gravy round.


Galantine of Pheasant à la Mode.

Bone a pheasant, cut off the legs and press what is left of the leg
inside, and cut away any sinews. Take three-quarters of a pound of
sausage meat, a dozen oysters, three or four truffles, a slice of
tongue, and three rashers of fat bacon. Cut the truffles into _small_
dice, also the tongue and bacon. Mix all together with the sausage meat,
adding a little cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of herbs mixed, half
an ounce of melted gelatine, and two yolks of eggs. Mix well together,
and spread over the pheasant evenly. Then roll it up lengthways and
tightly in a cloth and place it in saucepan to boil for an hour, then
take it out and remove the cloth carefully. To serve this dish, cut it
up into thin slices and dish them in a circle, letting one piece overlap
the other uniformly all round. Place a little cress salad compressed
into a ball on the top, and at the base a few croûtons of aspic jelly at
an equal distance apart, and a little chopped aspic between. Sprinkle a
little over the salad ball at the top.


Fritôt of Crème of Pheasant.

Take eight tartlet tins, not too large, butter them, and fill about
three parts full of crème of pheasant and place them in the oven for a
few minutes. When quite firm to the touch, remove them from oven, and
when cold dip each one into a light batter and fry in clean lard of a
light brown. The batter should be made with half a pound of Vienna
flour, the half of a yolk of egg, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, and a
gill of pale ale. Mix all these together lightly till it will mask the
point of one's finger; if too thick, add a drop or two more ale. Serve
with brown or mushroom sauce. Send this dish very hot to table.


Partridge à la Crème.

See Pheasant ditto.


Fritôt of Partridge à la Crème.

See Pheasant ditto.


Pheasant and Macaroni.

Pull the flesh with two forks from a cold roast pheasant. Put the bones
and trimmings into a saucepan with enough water to cover them, and let
them simmer till it is much reduced. Add two shalots, a little salt and
pepper, a grate of nutmeg, a gill of mushroom ketchup and the same of
Marsala. Thicken with flour and butter, and let all simmer gently for
twenty minutes; strain it, and put it back into the saucepan for it to
boil up. Just before the pheasant is to be served, put the meat into the
gravy and let it warm through without boiling. After it is dished, place
round it some macaroni made as follows:--Have two pints of boiling
water, into which plunge four ounces of macaroni, add pepper and salt,
and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain it, and put it into a pint
of good stock, with a little salt, a teaspoonful of unmixed mustard and
a dust of cayenne. Let it all boil till the macaroni is tender, then add
a tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese and an ounce of butter. Toss it over
fire till all is well mixed, then serve.


Pheasant Pie with Oysters.

Boil a pheasant till almost done; it will finish cooking in the pie.
Make as much gravy as the size of the bird will require, add half a cup
of milk, season and thicken it. Make a good pie-crust, and then put the
pieces of pheasant in a pie-dish, which must be hot. Scatter some raw
oysters among the pieces of pheasant, pour over all enough gravy to fill
the dish to the depth of one inch, and cover it with the crust, which
must be pressed against the edge so that it will adhere. Let it bake for
half an hour. After it is cooked, pour in remainder of the gravy in the
slit in the top of the crust.


Pheasant des Rois.

Have a pound of the best preserved truffles, such as can be obtained at
Benoist's, in Wardour Street, stew them in a mixture of a quarter of a
pound of butter, a large tablespoonful of finest Lucca oil, and half a
pound of bacon fat scraped into shreds. Thoroughly cook the truffles, so
that a silver fork can be stuck into them without pushing hard. Stuff a
pheasant with them and sew it up. Cover the breast with a slice of fat
bacon, and put two or three slices beneath it. Place round the pheasant
pieces of veal and ham cut into small cubes the size of dice, add a few
carrots, an onion or two, salt and pepper. Pour on it a claretglassful
of Chablis, cover the saucepan, place it on a slow fire and use the
salamander, then let it stew for an hour. When ready to serve, strain
the same, removing all grease, and pour over the bird.


Pheasant à la Sainte Alliance.

An expensive dish.

Take a well-hung cock pheasant and truss it for roasting. Farce it with
a stuffing made of two woodcocks' flesh and internals (or snipes')
finely minced with two ounces of fresh butter, some salt, pepper, and a
pinch of cayenne, a bouquet garni finely powdered, and as many chopped
truffles as will be required to fill the pheasant. Truss the bird and
roast, basting it well with fresh butter. Whilst roasting, lay in the
pan a round of toast, upon which a little of the stuffing has been
spread, and serve the bird on it. Bread sauce and brown gravy should be
handed round with it.


Salmi of Pheasant.

Half roast a pheasant, and when it is nearly cold cut it into neat
joints, removing the skin. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan
with an ounce of fresh butter, a bayleaf, and a bouquet garni, and stir
these over a slow fire till lightly brown, then pour over half a pint of
Espagnole sauce and a glassful of claret. Let all simmer for a quarter
of an hour. Strain the gravy, skim it carefully, add a pinch of cayenne
and the juice of half a lemon, then put it back into the saucepan with
the pieces of game. Heat these up slowly. When cooked, dish up and pour
the hot sauce over them and garnish with fried sippets. A little orange
juice and a lump of sugar is an improvement to the sauce.


Pheasant Stewed with Cabbage.

Truss a pheasant for boiling. Divide a large cabbage into quarters, soak
them after cutting off the stalks, plunge them into boiling water and
boil for about ten minutes. Take them out, drain them and press all the
water from them, then put them into the stewpan. Lay the pheasant well
in the cabbage, add six ounces of good bacon, half a pound of Bologna
sausage, three pork sausages, some parsley, a bayleaf, a bouquet garni,
one carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a shalot, and some pepper.
Pour in as much stock as will cover the whole, and cover the pan closely
and bring to a boil and let it simmer slowly for an hour. Then take out
the bird and the meat and keep them warm whilst the cabbage is drained,
peppered, and salted, and steamed over fire till dry. Then place it on
a dish, arrange the pheasant on it and all the other adjuncts round it.
Serve poivrade sauce in a tureen.


Pheasant Stuffed with Oysters.

Truss a pheasant for roasting and fill it with forcemeat made of two
dozen oysters pounded in the mortar, with a tablespoonful of brown
breadcrumbs, half an ounce of fresh butter, a dessertspoonful of lemon
juice, a boned anchovy, and a little cayenne. Mix these ingredients
thoroughly and bind them with the yolk of an egg. Cover the bird with
thin slices of fat bacon tied on securely, and roast before a clear
fire. When done, dish up with clear gravy, and hand bread sauce in a
tureen with it.


Pheasant Stuffed with Tomatoes.

Truss a pheasant for roasting, and fill it with a forcemeat made of six
tomatoes pounded in the mortar, with a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, a
shalot, a mushroom, half a clove of garlic, a teaspoonful of parsley,
and half an ounce of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Bind together
with the yolk of an egg. Cover the bird with slices of bacon and roast
before a clear fire. Mushroom or tomato sauce may be served in a tureen
with it. Partridge and grouse are also very delicious stuffed in this
way.


Pheasant en Surprise.

Take a pheasant, remove the skin from the breast and take away all the
meat, removing any gristle there may be, and place it in a mortar. Have
ready half a pint of good cream, and begin by pouring half the quantity
over the pheasant and pound together for a few minutes, then rub it
through a clean wire sieve. When passed, put it back into the mortar,
add the remainder of the cream gradually into the fowl, stirring it
round so that they blend together perfectly. Fill a mould with this
mixture and twist a bit of buttered paper round the top; then fold a
sheet of paper several times and place it in a stewpan, put about half a
pint of boiling water into the stewpan, or more according to size of it,
and let all simmer gently for twenty minutes. Add a little salt and a
dust of cayenne pepper. Turn this out and mix with it half a pint of
white aspic jelly. Have ready some very clear aspic jelly, and colour it
red. Take a pretty shaped jelly mould, pour in a little of the red aspic
to about rather more than a quarter of the mould. When this is cool, put
in the pheasant and aspic mixture, and place on ice for four hours; when
properly frozen, turn out, and garnish the top with a wreath of fresh
chervil leaves. Serve chopped aspic in little mounds round the base
alternately with mounds of mayonnaise salad or tomatoes.


Pheasant à la Suisse.

Take the remains of a cold pheasant, cut it into neat joints. Salt and
pepper these highly, and strew over it finely chopped onion and
parsley. Cover them with oil, and squeeze over them the juice of a
lemon. Turn the pieces every now and then, and let them remain till they
have imbibed the flavour, then dip the pieces in a batter made of four
ounces of flour, with as much milk added as will make a thick batter.
Stir into it half a wineglassful of brandy and an egg, the white and
yolk beaten to a froth. This batter should rest for an hour in a warm
place before using. Fry the pieces of chicken in the batter, and send it
up piled on a dish garnished with fried parsley.


Pheasant à la Tregothran.

Bone a pheasant and stuff it with the meat from four woodcocks or six
snipe, cut it up, and chop up some truffles and make it into forcemeat.
Fry the trail of the woodcock or snipe in a little butter, and place on
little rounds of fried bread and arrange round the dish. Stew the bones
of the woodcocks or snipe to make the gravy, reduce it, and add a glass
of Marsala to the broth and serve in a boat.


Pheasant à la Victoria.

Take a quarter of a pound of bacon, cut it up in pieces (frying the
bacon first), add a small clove of garlic, a small shalot, a bayleaf,
half a carrot, half a turnip, half a dozen stewing oysters, and salt and
pepper to taste. Stew over the fire, and when cooked pound it all
together with a few more oysters and pass through a wire sieve. Stuff a
pheasant with this, and place it in a stewpan with carrots and turnips;
let all stew till tender, well basting it with its own stock. Serve
with rich Espagnole sauce or oyster sauce on a croustade of potato.


Pigeons à la Duchesse.

Split a couple of pigeons in halves, remove the breast bones and beat
them flat, sauté them with two ounces of butter, pepper and salt. Press
them flat between two plates with a weight on them, and when the pigeons
are cold spread the quenelle meat over the cut side of the birds; then
egg and breadcrumb them and fry in fat. Dish in a circle with brown
sauce round and a macédoine of vegetables in the centre.


Pigeons à la Financière.

Take four pigeons, truss and braise them in stock, then glaze them, dish
them up against a block of fried bread. Pour round half a pint of
Financière sauce, and garnish with small quenelles of forcemeat,
truffles, mushrooms, and cockscombs in the centre.


Pigeons à la Merveilleuse.

Blanch a brace of pigeons, and beat the backs so as to spread out the
breasts, boil them in equal quantities of stock and Chablis, season with
salt and pepper, a sprig of parsley, two shalots, and two cloves; when
cooked, take them out of the stewpan, and cook some mushrooms, twelve
shelled crayfish, and a little flour in the sauce of the pigeons, boil
for half an hour, reduce and thicken the sauce with yolks of egg and
cream, season with finely chopped parsley and pour over the pigeons,
and serve garnished with the heads of the crayfish.


Ballotines of Pigeon à la Moderne.

Take four boned pigeons, cut them lengthways in two, and make a farce of
half a pound of pork sausage meat, half a spoonful of chopped truffles,
the same of mushrooms, a few pieces of tongue cut into dice shapes, a
bouquet garni, pepper and salt, and one yolk of an egg, all well mixed
together. Then divide it into eight equal parts, and fill the halves of
the pigeons with it; make them into round balls, cutting off the feet.
Tie each piece of pigeon in a little bit of calico, and braise them till
nicely tender. Then let them cool, tie them up tightly, and let them get
quite cold; place one of the feet in each ballotine, and arrange them on
a sauté-pan. Take off the calico, make them hot and glaze them, and
serve with mushrooms and peas, and with a rich brown sauce over them.


Pigeons en Poqueton.

Put some pâté de foie gras forcemeat, or any other forcemeat, into a
small stewpan, and spread it all over at the bottom and sides, rubbing
the stewpan first with butter. Put in a couple of pigeons trussed for
roasting, some sweetbreads and tongue cut into neat pieces, and some
button mushrooms; arrange all these tastily in the pan, place some more
forcemeat on the top, cover it over with slices of bacon, and bake it in
a gentle oven. Before closing it, pour some good gravy inside. The
pigeons should be seasoned with pepper and salt, and just rubbed with
garlic. When it is cooked, take it from the oven, and turn it carefully
out into its dish, and pour a very rich sauce over it.


Pigeon en Ragoût de Crevettes.

Prepare a couple of pigeons, cut them in half, and put them in a stewpan
with a glass of Sauterne, half a pint of stock, a sprig of parsley, two
cloves, pepper, salt, and a shalot; simmer till cooked, strain the
gravy. Now put an ounce of butter with a dozen button mushrooms and two
or three dozen skinned prawns into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of
flour and the gravy the pigeons were stewed in; simmer this for half an
hour, then thicken it with a gill of cream and two yolks of eggs, add
some finely chopped parsley and a grate of nutmeg. Dish up the pigeons
with the mushrooms and prawns in the centre.


Pigeons au Soleil.

Take a couple of roasted pigeons and put them into a marinade of an
ounce of butter, four shalots, an onion, and a carrot cut up into dice,
a little parsley, a bayleaf, a little thyme, and a clove; put them into
a stewpan and fry till they are of a light brown, then moisten with a
little vinegar and water. When they have simmered for half an hour in
the marinade let them cool, drain, and put them into a batter made of
four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, a little olive oil, and moisten
with a sufficient quantity of water and two beaten whites of eggs; then
fry them a good colour, and serve up with fried parsley in the middle,
with a poivrade or piquant sauce around.


Pigeons à la Soussell.

Bone four pigeons, and make a forcemeat of some fillet of veal, some ham
fat, some grated breadcrumbs, mushrooms, truffles, a shalot, a bouquet
garni, a little cayenne, pepper and salt, mixed with butter cooked over
the fire and then pounded in a mortar; put some of this forcemeat into
the pigeons and stew them gently for half an hour. Take the pigeons out
and mask them well with more of the forcemeat, brush some beaten egg
over each, and put them in the fryingpan and fry them in good dripping.
Take the gravy they were stewed in, skim off all fat, thicken well with
a liaison of cream and eggs, season with a little pepper and salt, and
mix all together. Make a mound of spinach purée in the centre of the
dish, and place the pigeons around, standing up against the purée. Take
some very small boiled tomatoes, of a good shape, make a wreath round
the base, place a few button mushrooms on the top of the spinach, and
pour the sauce all round.


Grey Plovers Cooked in Brandy.

After trussing the plovers, flatten them and warm them in a stewpan with
a little melted bacon fat, a bouquet garni, two onions, three mushrooms,
and two or three truffles (the latter may be left out). As soon as they
begin to colour, add half a pint of brandy and toss over a quick fire
till the brandy is in flames; as soon as the flames go out, moisten with
gravy and simmer over a slow fire. When the birds are done, skim off all
grease, add the juice of a lemon, and serve hot.


Golden Plover.

Trim, truss, leaving the inside in, cover with fat bacon, and roast or
bake for twenty minutes. Put a piece of well-buttered toast one-third of
an inch thick to catch the trails. Dress grey plovers exactly the same.


Golden Plover aux Champignons.

Take three golden plover, chop up the trails with parsley, shalots,
salt, pepper, and scraped bacon, and stuff the plover with it; cover the
breasts with slices of bacon and roast. When done, serve on stewed
mushrooms.


Fried Plover with English Truffles.

Truss three plover for roasting, lay them breast downwards in a stewpan
with plenty of butter, enough to entirely cover the breasts. Put in nine
or ten well-washed raw truffles pared very thin and cut into slices
about the size of a florin. Add a bayleaf, pepper and salt. Stir over a
brisk fire for ten minutes, then pour in a pint of stock mixed with a
spoonful of flour and a glass of sherry. Simmer by side of fire for
twenty minutes, skimming carefully. Dish up the birds, and then boil the
sauce till it is thick and smooth, add the strained juice of a lemon, a
lump of sugar, and a few drops of some XL colouring, and pour over the
birds.


Stuffed Pullet.

Bone the pullet, stuff with forcemeat made with minced veal, egg, ham,
onions, foie gras, and mushrooms. First warm the veal, onion, and ham
in melted butter, then add the mushrooms and foie gras, moisten with
stock and boil. Stir in two yolks of eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon
juice before taking off the fire, season with a little salt, pepper, and
a pinch of nutmeg. After stuffing the fowl with this mixture, sew it up,
turn the skin of the neck half over the head and cut off part of the
comb, which will give it the appearance of a turtle's head. Blanch and
singe four chickens' feet, cut off the claws and stick two where the
wings ought to be and two in the thighs, so as to look like turtle's
feet. Stew the pullet with a little ham, onions, and carrots, tossed
previously in butter, moisten with stock, skim occasionally. When done,
cut the string where it is sewn, lay it on its back in a dish, garnish
the breast with sliced truffles cut in fancy shapes, and place a
crayfish tail to represent the turtle's tail.

Velouté sauce may be handed with this dish, or it may be eaten cold and
garnished with aspic.


Quails à la Beaconsfield.

Put, having trussed, six quails in a stewpan wrapped in slices of bacon.
Moisten with two spoonfuls of stock, a bouquet garni, two bayleaves and
a clove, pepper and salt to taste. Stew them for twenty minutes over a
very slow fire. Drain them well, make a purée of peas in which a
tablespoonful of aspic jelly has been mixed. Mask each quail with the
purée, dish them in a crown shape with little rolls of bacon in front of
each, have a few truffles or mushrooms cooked and placed in the centre,
and pour over the quails a rich brown sauce.


Quails en Caisse.

Bone six quails and halve them, take the bones and trimmings and stew
them in some stock with two carrots, one onion, one shalot, a bayleaf, a
small piece of lean ham, a small piece of parsley, pepper and salt. This
must be reduced, and then strained. Make a forcemeat of the quails'
livers, a small piece of calf's liver, and half their quantity of bacon.
Put these into a sauté-pan with a couple of shalots and an ounce of
butter, and toss them over the fire for five minutes, then pass this
mixture through a sieve. Have the paper cases ready oiled, and place at
the bottom a layer of this farce, having already stuffed the half quails
with it. The stuffed half quails, rolled, must now be put into the cases
with a thin slice of very fat bacon over them. They must now be baked in
the oven for about twelve minutes. Remove the bacon, and pour over the
gravy, which must be thickened with flour rolled in butter. Strew a
little very nicely minced parsley over each case.


Compôte of Quails.

Take six quails, cut the claws off, and truss them with the legs inside.
Cut eight pieces of bacon rolled up like corks, blanch them to draw out
any salt, and fry them till they are of a light brown; take them out and
put in the quails, which must be stewed till they begin to be of a light
brown, then remove them. Make a thickening with flour and butter, and
put it into a good gill of veal stock; add a bouquet garni, some small
onions and mushrooms. Skim the sauce well, and strain it over the
quails, then dish the bacon, mushrooms, and small onions, and send up
hot.


Quails and Green Peas.

Cook the quails in a stewpan with a slice of veal and a slice of ham,
carrots, onions, and a bouquet garni; cover with rashers of bacon and
buttered paper; place hot coals on the lid, and, when done, dish up the
quails with green peas in the centre which have been cooked in butter.


Boudins of Rabbit à la Reine.

Cut the meat from a young very fine rabbit, which put into some reduced
Béchamel sauce. When cold, roll it into large boudins the shape of
sausages, egg and breadcrumb, and fry. Serve under them velouté sauce.


Boiled Rabbit à la Maintenon.

Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, and put them in a stewpan with
enough white stock just to cover them; add a bouquet garni, a stick of
celery, a shalot, an onion, a few peppercorns, a carrot, and six
mushrooms. Let all simmer slowly for half an hour, or it might be a
little longer, then take them up and drain them; then cut as many pieces
of white foolscap paper as there are pieces of rabbit, butter them,
sprinkle the pieces of rabbit, and lay on each a little piece of fat
bacon, then roll them in the paper and broil over a fire till the bacon
has had time to cook. Serve in the papers. Thicken the gravy in the
usual way, and serve it in a tureen.


Galantine of Rabbit.

Take a couple of young rabbits, bone, and lay them on a linen cloth; lay
over them a good meat stuffing seasoned to taste, putting over this
stuffing, which should be laid on about the thickness of a crown, first
a layer of ham cut in slices, and then a layer of hard eggs. Cover these
layers with a little forcemeat, roll up the meat, taking care not to
displace the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat bacon,
wrapping the whole in a cloth; wind some packthread round it and let it
boil three hours in stock, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and
onions, a large bunch of parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, cloves,
thyme, bayleaves, and basil. Allow this to cool, take off the cloth, and
serve cold.


Gibelotte de Lapin.

Cut a rabbit into pieces. Sauté it in two ounces of butter, add an
onion, two shalots, and a pint of poivrade sauce; put it in the oven for
one hour, being careful not to burn it. Small pieces of cauliflower and
croûtons of fried bread should garnish this dish.


Fillets of Rabbit with Cucumber Sauce.

Cut two cucumbers into thin slices and soak them in vinegar, with
pepper, salt, and a bayleaf, for two hours, then half roast the rabbit,
take the skin off, and fillet it. Make a sauce of white stock, and put
the pieces of rabbit into it with the cucumber until it is quite done.
Arrange the pieces of rabbit in a circle, put the cucumber in the
middle, and pour the sauce over the fillets. Fried sippets should
garnish this dish.


Fricandeau of Rabbit.

Take the fleshy portion of a good-sized rabbit, lard the flesh and lay
it in a deep baking dish, cover it with some highly flavoured stock.
Place a piece of buttered paper over the dish, and bake in a moderate
oven till it is tender, basting it frequently. Lift the rabbit out and
keep it hot whilst the gravy is boiling to thicken. Spread a teacupful
of good tomato sauce on a hot dish, lay the rabbit on it, hold a
salamander over the larding to crisp it, and pour the gravy over all.


Rabbit Fritters.

Cut the meat from a cold rabbit into small pieces, put them in a
pie-dish and sprinkle over them parsley, chives, thyme, and a clove of
garlic, all chopped very fine, salt, pepper, and a bayleaf; pour over
all a glass of Chablis and the juice of a lemon. Let the pieces of
rabbit soak in this for two hours, then take them out, dredge them well
over with flour, and throw them into boiling fat till of a nice golden
colour. Remove and drain them, pile them high in an entrée dish, and
pour round the following sauce. Take the liquor the rabbit has been
soaked in, add half a pint of stock and a little thickening of flour and
butter, and let it boil well. Then strain through a sieve, put in a
tablespoonful of piccalilli chopped fine, or some chutnee, give another
boil, and serve.


Rabbit Klösse.

Take a cold dressed rabbit, mince all the meat, mix in with it an equal
quantity of bread soaked in milk squeezed dry. Cut two slices of bacon
into small squares, and fry slowly. Add the minced meat and stir in two
eggs, and let it cook a few minutes. Turn it out on a dish to cool, and
add one more egg. Form it into balls the size of an egg, then drop them
into boiling water, and boil until set. Lift them out very tenderly,
pile them up in a pyramid on a dish, and garnish them with fried
potatoes. Send a sharp sauce to table with them.


Rabbits en Papillote.

Mince up some parsley, mushrooms, shalot, a clove of garlic, a slice of
bacon, with salt and pepper to taste. Mix this in a little gravy on the
fire to form a paste. Cut a rabbit into neat fillets and joints. Cover
each with the paste, then wrap a thin slice of fat bacon and fix each
piece neatly in an oiled paper. Cook them slowly in the oven, and serve
in papers.


Rabbit Pie à la Provençale.

Take two small rabbits, cut them into joints, and lay them in a saucepan
with two carrots, two onions, a clove of garlic, a bunch of herbs, and a
pound of pickled pork (the belly). Boil in a very little water for half
an hour, take out the rabbits and drain them, also drain the pork and
place it at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish, and then lay the
pieces of rabbit on it. Pour on a wine-glassful of Sauterne or vin de
Grave, and strew over it some Spanish pimento. Pour in some good batter,
and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Reduce the liquor in which it
was cooked and add the strained juice of a lemon. The sauce should be
handed with it.


Rabbit Pilau.

Cut up a young rabbit into ten or twelve pieces. Rub each piece into a
savoury pudding made as follows. Extract the juice of two onions, mix a
teaspoonful of salt with it, half a teaspoonful of powdered ginger, and
the juice of a lemon. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of broth till
it is half cooked. Have ready four ounces of good dripping, and fry the
pieces of rabbit in it, with two sliced onions. When they are brown
remove them. Place the meat into a deep jar. Lay the onions on it and
cover with the rice, add four cloves, eight peppercorns, some salt, and
a little lemon peel cut very thinly, and pour half a pint of milk over;
place some folds of paper over the jar and bake in the oven, adding a
little broth when the rabbit is half cooked. When done, pile the rice on
a dish, and lay the pieces of rabbit on the top and serve very quickly.


Rabbit Pudding.

Cut a rabbit into ten or twelve pieces, put these into a stewpan with a
little pepper and salt, pour on as much boiling water as will cover
them, and let them simmer for half an hour. Take them up and put in
their place the head and liver of rabbit with some bacon rind and simmer
for an hour, strain and skim it, and let it get cool. Line a pie-dish
with suet crust, and then put in the pieces of rabbit with four ounces
of fat bacon cut into narrow strips, pour in a cupful of the cool gravy,
lay on the cover, and boil in the usual way. N.B.--The brains may be
mixed in with the liver.


Rabbit à la Tartare.

Bone a rabbit, cut it into pieces, and let it marinade for six hours in
parsley, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, chives, all chopped very fine,
with pepper, salt, and the best salad oil. Dip each piece of rabbit in
breadcrumbs and broil, sprinkling the pieces with the marinade. Serve
Tartare sauce over it or with it.


The Wanderer's Rabbit.

No. 1.

Divide a rabbit into pieces of convenient size, put them into a saucepan
in which half a dozen slices of bacon are cooking. As soon as the meat
is beginning to brown, pour a wineglass and a half of brandy into the
saucepan, and set fire to it. When the fire has burnt out, add a little
pepper, salt, a bayleaf, and a bit of thyme, and let it simmer by the
side of the fire till the brandy has nearly dried up, then serve.


The Wanderer's Rabbit.

No. 2.

Divide a couple of rabbits into quarters, adding plenty of pepper and
salt. Slightly fry them in a saucepan in bacon fat and flour. Add
sufficient stock and two glasses of Sauterne, and let it stew on a
moderate fire. When done, squeeze an orange over the dish just before
serving up.


Stewed Roebuck Cutlets.

Sprinkle the cutlets with salt and pepper, cook them in a saucepan with
melted butter. When half done, turn them, add a little flour, moisten
with equal quantities of white wine and stock, season with chopped
eschalots, parsley, and blanched mushrooms; remove the cutlets when
done, place them round an entrée dish, reduce the sauce, pass it through
a tammy, and pour over the cutlets.


Snipe à la Minute.

Pluck three snipes and truss them for roasting. Put the snipes head
downwards in a saucepan with two ounces of melted butter, two finely
chopped shalots, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt
to taste. Shake the saucepan over the fire till the birds are lightly
browned, pour over them as much good stock and sherry as will just cover
them. Add the strained juice of half a lemon and a small piece of finely
grated crust. Simmer till birds are done, dish them, and pour over them
some good strong beef gravy, and serve quickly.


Snipe Pie.

Take eight snipe for a moderately sized pie; cut them into neat pieces.
Make a forcemeat of ham, chicken, tongue, seasoned with a little sweet
herbs, pepper, salt, cayenne, some breadcrumbs, and mushrooms chopped
fine. Mix all together with the yolks of a couple of eggs, then place in
the pie-dish a layer of snipe, then forcemeat, then snipe again, and
then forcemeat, till the dish is full. Pour in some good gravy, and put
it in the oven to bake. When it is done, raise the paste cover and pour
in some more gravy. This pie may be eaten hot or cold.


Snipe Pie à la Danoise.

Parboil the birds in broth and Chablis, seasoned with pepper, salt, a
grated onion, and a grate of nutmeg. Make a forcemeat of finely scraped
beef, say one pound, also four ounces of fat pork. Pound and mix well
together with a little butter and the crumb of a roll soaked in broth,
season with grated onion, pepper, mushrooms and gherkins chopped fine,
and add a little broth. Line a dish with this forcemeat, put in the
snipe, and bake it for an hour to an hour and fifteen minutes. Serve
with a sauce made of half a pint of good stock, a gill of Chablis, a
little water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stirred till
smooth; when it begins to boil slice in pickled gherkins.


Snipe Raised Pie (Hot).

Cut four snipes in two lengthwise, remove the gizzards, put the trails
aside, and season the birds with salt and cayenne. Fry the birds in
butter for ten minutes and then stand them to drain in the cool till
wanted. Make a forcemeat of four ounces of calf's liver, four ditto fat
bacon cut small, melt the latter over a quick fire, and then add the
liver and season the mixture with pepper, salt, and herbs. When these
are cooked, let them get cold, and then pound them in the mortar with
the trails of the birds. Now pass all through a sieve. Line a buttered
pie-mould with raised crust paste, and put in a layer of the forcemeat
at the bottom of the mould, leaving it hollow in the centre. Put half
the pieces of snipe in a circle upon the forcemeat, and place a little
ball of forcemeat upon them, put in the rest of the birds and put a
layer of forcemeat over all. Fill the hollow in the centre with bread
which has been covered with fat bacon, put the pastry cover on, and
bake. When done, take off the cover, remove bread and fill its place
with scallopped truffles. Pour good brown sauce over all, pile truffles
on the top, and serve. This can also be made in a china raised pie-case.


Snipe Soufflé.

Roast three or four snipe, remove all the meat from the bones, put it
into a mortar, and pound it well with two ounces of cooked rice, one
ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and one gill and a half of
glaze. Pass through hair sieve and add the yolks of four eggs whipped to
a stiff froth; put it into a mould and bake in a quick oven. Serve with
a good gravy round, made from the bones and trimmings, the juice of half
a lemon, and a glass of port wine; thicken with butter and cornflour.


Snipes à la Superlative.

Make a forcemeat of three ounces of fat bacon, three ounces of fowl's
liver, and cut both into pieces an inch square. Fry the bacon over a
sharp fire, move it about constantly, and in three or four minutes add
the liver. When it is half done, mince it with the bacon, season, and
add half a clove of garlic and pound all smoothly in a mortar. Pass
through wire sieve. When quite cold, roll out half of it with a little
flour, form it into a thick band, and arrange it in a circle at the
bottom of a dish. Take four partially roasted snipes, split them open
down the back, and spread the forcemeat a quarter of an inch thick over
the inside of each. Place the birds in the middle of the dish, and cover
them with some of the forcemeat, smooth with a hot knife and put the
dish into a quick oven, wipe away all fat, pour truffle sauce over the
snipe, and serve.


Teal Pudding.

Take three teal, season the birds with salt and cayenne, and divide them
into neat pieces. Cut up a pound of rump steak into pieces about an inch
in size, season, and dredge them lightly with flour. Line a
pudding-basin with good suet paste rolled out to half an inch thickness.
Place in a layer of steak and a layer of teal, and repeat till the dish
is full, then fill in with three-quarters of a pint of good gravy, and
put the cover on in the usual way. Plunge it into boiling water and keep
it boiling till done. Serve it in the basin it is cooked in, with a
napkin pinned round it.


Salmi of Teal.

Put in a stewpan three ounces of butter and one good spoonful of flour,
let them melt together, stirring till it becomes a nice brown; add by
degrees a gill of good stock and as much red wine, two whole shalots
(taken out after), a full bouquet, pepper, and a little salt; put in the
body and bones of the bird, from which you have previously detached the
limbs and meat. Let all boil slowly for half an hour, pass all through
colander, and put gravy alone back in stewpan on the fire, and just when
on the point of boiling put in the pieces of teal and take the stewpan
off the fire; add a little lemon juice, put the lid on, and leave it on
the hob for half an hour.


Stewed Teal.

Truss the birds, putting aside the hearts, livers, and gizzards, and
dredge them with flour, then place them in a saucepan with a piece of
butter, and let them brown equally, taking care of the gravy which oozes
from them. Let them get cold, then carve them in such a way that the
wings and legs can be taken off with a piece of breast adhering to it.
Break the bodies of the birds into small pieces, and stew them with the
livers, &c., in as much stock as will cover them, till the gravy becomes
good and strong, then strain it, season with cayenne, salt, a glassful
of claret, and a little Seville orange juice. Directly it begins to
boil, put in the fleshy portion of the birds and let simmer till they
are thoroughly heated, but do not let the gravy boil. Cut slices of
bread large enough for a leg and wing to lie upon, fry till lightly
browned, arrange them neatly, and pour sauce over them. Garnish with
sliced lemon.


Devilled Turkey Drumsticks.

Score the drumsticks down parallel with the bone, and insert in the
slices thus made a mixture made with one ounce of butter, a good
teaspoonful of French mustard, a little cayenne, and a salt-spoonful of
black pepper. Mix all this thoroughly together and spread the mixture
into the cuts, then rub the drumsticks with butter, and grill over a
fierce fire.


Turkey en Daube.

Put slices of bacon in a braising-pan, lard the breast and thighs of a
turkey trussed for boiling, and place the turkey on the slices of bacon;
put into the pan a slice of ham and a calf's foot broken into small
pieces, with the trimmings of the turkey, two onions stuck with four
cloves, three carrots, and a bouquet garni. Put slices of bacon over the
turkey, put some melted butter over, and cover with three rounds of
buttered paper and let it simmer for five hours; take it from the fire
and leave it for half an hour, strain the gravy and boil it down. Beat
an egg into a saucepan, and pour the jellied gravy into this, whip it
well, then put it on the fire, bring it to the boil, and then draw it to
the side of the fireplace, cover it with the lid with hot coals on it,
and let it remain for half an hour; strain again, and with this jelly
cover the turkey.


Venison Cutlets.

Trim the cutlets the same as you would mutton cutlets, melt a little
butter on a plate, dip each cutlet in the butter, and dust them slightly
with flour, then in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Fry them
in hot lard for ten minutes, take them out of the lard and lay them on a
flat dish covered with paper; put them before the fire for a few minutes
to free them from grease. Dish them up, and pour Financière sauce round
the cutlets.


Venison Cutlets à l'Américaine.

Cut the cutlets very small, and arrange them en couronne. Make an
Espagnole sauce, and flavour it with bayleaves, garlic, half a pound of
red currant jelly, and a glass of Madeira.


Haricot of Venison.

Take a neck or shoulder of venison, and cut the meat of the shoulder in
pieces two inches square and the neck in thick cutlets. Fry these pieces
with two ounces of butter in a stewpan over a brisk fire until they are
browned, then pour off all grease, shake in a little flour, and stir
together, moisten with sufficient stock to cover the meat, season with
pepper and salt, and stir over fire till it boils. Remove it then to the
corner of the stove to allow it to throw up its scum, which remove. Wash
and scrape three carrots, and with a vegetable scoop cut out all the
pink from the carrots in round balls, and boil them in water for half an
hour. Cut out some balls of turnip in the same manner, and boil for
fifteen minutes. Strain the vegetables and add them to the stew, with a
glass of port wine and two ounces of red currant jelly. When the meat
and vegetables are thoroughly cooked, and the stew well skimmed, dish it
up very quickly.


Venison Pasty.

Stew the venison, remove all the bones, sinew, and skin, cutting off the
fat and putting it aside. Make the paste in the usual way, and cover the
edge and sides of a pasty dish: then put in the pieces of venison,
packing it closely together, pepper and salt it well. Cover it with the
paste and then bake it, which will take about four hours. Pour in at the
top three-quarters of a pint of venison gravy which has been made from
the bones and trimmings, two shalots, a gill of port wine, and a
tablespoonful of ketchup.


Venison Puffs.

Cut some cold venison into very thin shavings, mix a tablespoonful of
red currant jelly with some rich brown sauce, and put on the venison
pieces. Have ready some light puff paste, roll it out thin and divide it
in pieces, put some of the meat in each, and form them into puffs. Brush
with white of egg, and bake quickly a delicate brown colour.


Salmis of Widgeon.

Take two widgeon that have been cooked, cut them up into neat pieces,
break up the bones and put them into brown stock with some minced
shalots, pepper and salt, and let them simmer very slowly for half an
hour, then add a glass of port wine, half a teaspoonful of Clarence's
cayenne sauce, and a squeeze of orange. Let it all boil up for about a
quarter of an hour, and add an ounce of butter into which a little flour
has been rubbed; let it thicken, then strain, pour the gravy over the
cold pieces of bird, and bring slowly to the boil and serve with fried
sippets. Some button mushrooms added to the gravy are a great
improvement. Widgeon may be cooked in as many ways as teal, using the
same recipes, substituting widgeon for teal.


Fillets of Wild Ducks with Olives.

Roast a couple of wild ducks and cut off the fillets in the usual way,
score the skin, dish the fillets in a circle and put into the centre
some stoned olives. Send clear brown gravy in a tureen with them.


Wild Fowl with Bigarade Sauce.

Roast a couple of wild fowl, cut off flesh from each side of the breast,
and from sides under the wings. Score the skin, and dish the fillets in
a circle with a little Bigarade sauce poured over them.


Woodcock à la Chasseur.

Truss a brace of cocks and put them down before a clear fire for fifteen
minutes, then take them away and cut them into neat joints. Put the
inferior pieces with three minced shalots, a bouquet garni, and half a
head of garlic into a saucepan with a wineglassful of good gravy,
another of wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the strained
juice of half a lemon, and let all simmer for ten minutes. Remove the
gizzards from the trail, and pound them in a mortar with a piece of
shalot, a little butter, pepper, and salt, and then rub through a sieve
and spread them upon small pieces of fried bread cut into the shape of
hearts. Put the joints of the woodcocks into a separate saucepan, strain
the gravy on them, and let them heat gently; they must not boil. Place
them on a dish, put the fried bread with the trail round them, pour the
gravy over all, and serve hot.


Woodcock à la Lucullus.

Roast the woodcocks in the usual way, and catch the trail on a toast.
Whilst the birds are still under-dressed, pour over them a little melted
butter with which the yolk of an egg and a little cream has been mixed.
Sprinkle grated breadcrumbs over, brown with a salamander, and serve
with brown gravy.


Woodcock à la Périgueux.

Truss a brace of woodcocks, cover them with layers of bacon and put them
into a stewpan with as much richly flavoured stock as will barely cover
them, and add a glassful of Madeira. Let them simmer till done enough,
drain, dish them, and pour over some Périgueux sauce.


Woodcock à la Provençale.

Fillet a brace of woodcock, soak them in salad oil seasoned with black
pepper, some cloves, and a pounded head of garlic. Place the bones on a
stewpan with some salad oil, six shalots, a head of garlic, a bayleaf,
and a bouquet garni. When brown, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a
tumblerful of Chablis, and a pint of stock. Reduce to half the quantity,
and pass through a tammy. Sauté the fillets in warm oil; when done,
place them in a circle on an entrée dish with a fried bread sippet
between each, stir a little lemon juice into the sauce, and pour over
the fillets.


Woodcock en Surprise.

Take two livers of fowls and the trails of some cold woodcocks. Chop
very finely two shalots, a sprig of parsley, and eight flap mushrooms,
and fry in butter. When nearly cooked, put in the trail and livers to
fry with the vegetables. After, pound all together in a mortar, and
season with salt and pepper. Cut some neat slices of bread about two
inches square, and fry them a pale colour, then spread on them the liver
and trail forcemeat. Place them into the oven to colour, then dish them
up with the woodcocks made into a salmi over them, with a good rich
brown sauce flavoured with claret round.


Salmi of Woodcocks à la Lucullus.

Take three woodcocks, which must be roasted very under-done. Take out
the trail, and add to it either three fowl livers or their equivalent in
pâté de foie gras. Make a farce with a dozen mushrooms chopped very
fine, a shalot, a sprig of parsley, both chopped fine. Fry these in a
little butter, then add the trails and livers or pâté de foie gras to
fry with them; when done, pound all in a mortar and season with salt,
pepper, and a dust of cayenne. As three woodcocks will give six fillets,
cut six bits of bread of the same size and fry them of a nice colour.
Then spread the farce equally divided over the six croustades, put them
into the oven, and when of a good colour put them between each of the
fillets. Make the sauce from the bones and cuttings of the birds, add
six spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce and a glass of Marsala. The fillets
should be kept in the hot sauce whilst the croustades are cooking, so as
to prevent their getting dry, then warm them up without boiling, as
boiling would spoil the dish.




INDEX.


Blackbird pie, 1

Blanquette of chicken, 1
  -- -- -- aux concombres, 2


Capilotade of fowl, 2

Chicken, blanquette of, 1, 2
  -- à la bonne femme, 2
  -- drumsticks, braised, 3
  -- chiringrate, 3
  -- à la Continental, 4
  -- à la Davenport, 4
  -- à l'Italienne, 4
  -- à la Matador, 5
  -- à la Cardinal, fillets of, 5
  -- fried à la Orly, 5
  -- -- à la Suisse, 5
  -- fricassee, 6
  -- fritôt aux tomates, 6
  -- nouilles au Parmesan, 7
  -- pudding à la Reine, 7
  -- rice, 8
  -- in savoury jelly, 8
  -- with spinach, 9
  -- stewed whole, 9

Capon fried, 10
  -- à la Nanterre, 11

Côtelettes à l'Ecarlate, 10


Ducks braised, 11
  -- à la mode, 11
  -- à la Nivernaise, 12
  -- devilled, 12

Ducks à la Provence, 12
  -- à purée perto, 13
  -- salmi of, 13
  -- stewed with turnips, 13


Game and macaroni, 14
  -- pie, 15
  -- rissoles, 15
  -- salad of, 16

Goose stuffed with chestnuts, 14
  -- à la Royale, 14

Grouse in aspic, 16
  -- croustades of, au diable, 17
  -- à l'Ecossais, 17
  -- à la Financière, 17
  -- friantine of, 18
  -- kromesquis, 18
  -- marinaded, 18
  -- au naturel, 19
  -- pie, 19
  -- pressed, 20
  -- salad, 20
  -- scallops of, à la Financière 21
  -- soufflé, 22
  -- timbale of, 22


Hare, to cook, 22
  -- cutlets à la chef, 23
  -- en daube, 24
  -- Derrynane fashion, 24
  -- à la Matanzas, 25
  -- à la mode, 25
  -- jugged, 26


Landrail, 26

Larks, croustade of, 26
  -- à la Macédoine, 27
  -- pie, 27
  -- puffs, 29
  -- salmi of, cold, 28

Leveret à la minute, 29
  -- à la Noël, 29

Lièvre, filet de, à la Muette, 24
  -- gâteaux de, 25


Moorfowl, salmi of, 30


Ortolans in cases, 30
  -- à la Périgourdine, 31
  -- aux truffes, 31


Partridges à la Barbarie, 31
  -- blancmanger and truffles, 32
  -- à la Béarnaise, 33
  -- blanquette of, 33
  -- broiled, 33
  -- chartreuse of, 34
  -- aux choux, 34
  -- cold fillets of, 35
  -- à la Cussy, 35
  -- with mushrooms, 36
  -- pie, 38
  -- pudding, 37
  -- à la Reine, 37
  -- salmi of, au chasseur, 38
  -- scalloped, 38
  -- à la Sierra Morena, 38
  -- soufflé, 39
  -- stewed, 40
  -- à la Toussenel, 40
  -- tartlets, 41
  -- à la Vénitienne, 41

Pintail, 42

Pheasant, boiled, 42

Pheasants, boudins of, 42
  -- à la bonne femme, 43
  -- à la Brillat-Savarin, 43
  -- crème of, à la moderne, 44
  -- cutlets, 45
  -- galantine of, 45
  -- fritôt, 46
  -- and macaroni, 46
  -- pie with oysters, 47
  -- des Rois, 48
  -- à la Sainte-Alliance, 48
  -- salmi of, 49
  -- stewed with cabbage, 49
  -- stuffed with oysters, 50
  -- -- -- tomatoes, 50
  -- en surprise, 51
  -- à la Suisse, 51
  -- à la Tregothran, 52
  -- à la Victoria, 52

Pigeons à la duchesse, 53
  -- à la financière, 53
  -- à la merveilleuse, 53
  -- ballotines of, 54
  -- en poqueton, 54
  -- en ragoût de crevettes, 55
  -- au soleil, 55
  -- à la Soussel, 56

Plovers in brandy, 56
  -- golden, 57
  -- -- aux champignons, 57
  -- aux truffes, 57

Pullet, stuffed, 57


Quails à la Beaconsfield, 58
  -- en caisse, 59
  -- compôte of, 59
  -- and green peas, 60


Rabbit, boudins of, 60
  -- à la Maintenon, 60
  -- galantine of, 61
  -- gibelotte of, 61
  -- fillets of, with cucumber, 61
  -- fricandeau of, 62
  -- fritters, 62
  -- klösse, 63
  -- en papillote, 63
  -- pie à la Provençale, 63
  -- pilau, 64
  -- pudding, 64
  -- à la Tartare, 65
  -- à la Wanderer, 65

Roebuck cutlets, 66


Snipe à la minute, 66
  -- pie, 66
  -- -- à la Danoise, 67
  -- hot raised, 67
  -- soufflé, 68
  -- à la superlative, 68


Teal, devilled, 12
  -- pudding, 69

Teal, salmi of, 69
  -- stewed, 70

Turkey drumsticks, devilled, 70
  -- en daube, 71


Venison cutlets, 71, 72
  -- haricot, 72
  -- pastry, 72
  -- puffs, 72


Widgeon, salmi of, 73

Wild ducks, fillets of, 74

Wildfowl à la Bigarade, 74

Woodcock au chasseur, 74
  -- à la Lucullus, 75
  -- à la Périgueux, 75
  -- en surprise, 75
  -- salmi à la Lucullus, 76




                PRINTED BY
  SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE
                  LONDON




 +----------------------------------------------------------+
 | Transcriber's Notes:                                     |
 | Left inconsistent hyphenation in place                   |
 | Page 44: Changed trail to tail                           |
 | Index: Corrected page number for Pigeons à la financière |
 +----------------------------------------------------------+





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dressed Game and Poultry à la Mode, by 
Harriet A. de Salis

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY À LA MODE ***

***** This file should be named 31982-8.txt or 31982-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/9/8/31982/

Produced by Joseph R. Hauser and The Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
